Corrections’ key areas of concern with the factual accuracy and representation
of information within the ‘First, do no harm: Segregation, Restraint and Pepper
Spray use in women’s prisons in New Zealand’ report.
Consent
On 6 October 2021, Corrections’ Ministerial Services Manager Robert Jones and
Chief Inspector Janis Adair took part in a meeting with yourself and representatives
from the Human Rights Commission. Concerns were raised about the safety and
wellbeing of the women and staff discussed in the report and consent processes.
name is in the footnotes of the report which raises privacy concerns.
The meeting concluded with the HRC’s Chief Legal Advisor, ,
undertaking contact with lawyer who is representing the women subject
to the Chief Inspector’s investigation and ARWCF.
Absence of methodological discussion
The report does not provide methodological discussion which undermines the
conclusions reached in the report. For example, the report does not document how
many observations were conducted over what period. What number of incidents
were reviewed over what period? Is this a census or a sample? If the latter, what
was the sampling criteria used? As this information is not provided it presents
difficulties in putting the research in to context.
Generalisation of all women’s prisons in New Zealand
As noted in your report, the data presented was obtained during the preparation of
the Paradigm Shift report in 2019, and observations made by yourself during a visit
to Auckland Region Women’s Corrections Facility (ARWCF), in July 2020. The report
however draws conclusions about practices in all women’s prison sites across New
Zealand when only one prison site was visited. This point should be clarified
throughout the report to refrain from generalisations being made based on a visit to
one prison.
Overall, the language used throughout the report is emotive and the content
presented is often subjective and based on opinion. This raises concerns about the
lack of evidence or facts to support many of the claims and accusations made.
Examples are referenced in the attached table of comments below.
Use of the term solitary confinement
The United Nations Standard Minimum Rules for the Treatment of Prisoners define
solitary confinement as the confinement of prisoners for 22 hours or more a day
without meaningful human contact. Segregation directions do not require that a
prisoner be prevented from having ‘meaningful human contact’. It is therefore
C141527

incorrect and misleading to equate the use of a segregation direction with solitary
confinement.
The report should clarify that legislatively segregation does not equate to solitary
confinement.
There is a failure to distinguish between the different types of segregation used in
New Zealand prisons - directed and voluntary segregation. Many women request
voluntary protective segregation whereby they request to be segregated from the
general prison population for reasons such as fearing for their safety.
Conflating different segregation and management regimes
The report combines periods spent in the Management Unit, Intervention and
Support Unit (ISU) and segregation. There is a failure to acknowledge and explain
the distinct difference between these units. The purpose of an ISU is to safely
observe and manage at-risk and vulnerable people in a therapeutic way. This is not
comparable to a person being placed on directed segregation for security, good
order or safety. It is also important to note that the regime for managing at-risk
prisoners is distinct from the segregation regimes in the Corrections Act 2004.
It is important that the report clarifies the difference between the different types of
segregation and management practices used by Corrections.
Discussions of over-representation of Māori and Pacific people are inaccurate
The references made in the report about the over-representation of Māori
and Pacific women is formed on incorrect baselines. An accurate baseline should be
the population of each ethnic group in prison, or more accurately of those with
incidents noted. There is no evidence to support references to bias decision making
by Corrections staff when approving segregation of women in prison. This is a
substantial accusation to make with no factual basis to support it. The over-
representation of Māori and Pacific women may be a result of the general over-
representations of these population groups in women’s prison in New Zealand.
Referencing this data to population levels in the general population overstates the
extent of over-representation. Please refer to our response to the ‘Paradigm Shift’
report for further detail on our concerns about the how over-representation of Māori
and Pacific in different forms of segregation has been presented.
Inaccurate representation of data
The data used inaccurately represents the use of segregation, pepper-spray, and
restraint in women’s prisons, due to the data for different and incongruent
management practices being combined, as detailed above. Further, there is limited
reference to the extremely low numbers of incidents where pepper spray was
actually deployed in women’s prisons.
C141527

Further specific concerns are outlined in the table below:
Page Reference in report Corrections’ comment on content
number
6 Overall, there is a continued and high Women’s offending that leads to imprisonment is
use of segregation and other punitive different to men.
practices towards women. In 2019
women were segregated significantly Normalising for offending history to compare with
(73%) more often than men in New like has not been undertaken so to compare
Zealand’s prisons overall rates fails to acknowledge different
populations.
Appears to be incorrect - in 2019 women
accounted for 6.6% of all periods in directed
segregation and 6% of the population.
While the majority of segregations Periods in segregation are not directly comparable
were relatively short, there were 101 to periods in solitary confinement as laid out in
6 occasions in 2019 where women the Mandela rules. This is detailed above.
spent 15 days or longer in
segregation, a period prohibited as a ISU, Management Units and Segregation are
form of torture UN Nelson Mandela incorrectly categorised as the same throughout
Rules’ definition of prolonged solitary the report.
confinement
Māori and Pacific women were Over-representation. Māori women represent
disproportionately segregated, in 64% of the prison population of women, and 70%
6 particular in Management and of those sentenced for violent offending, including
Separates Units used for control and murder, assaults and robbery – all offence types
punishment. At Auckland Region associated with behaviour that can result in
Women’s Correctional Facility periods in segregation.
(ARWCF), 78% and 75% of
segregations in the Separates and
Management Units respectively were
of Māori women. As many as 93% of
segregations lasting 15 days or longer
in the Management Unit were of
Māori or Pacific women.
C141527

7 Pepper spray was used 24 times in Pepper spray was deployed 36 times in Women’s
women’s prisons in 2019, 23 of which prisons in 2019, 32 at ARWCF, 3 times at Arohata
were in ARWCF, second only to and once at CMP. ARWCF has a higher density of
Christchurch Men’s prison in its complex prisoners than any other prison,
absolute number of pepper spray excluding Auckland Men’s Prison. Review of the
uses. - In several instances pepper incident text suggests that it is inappropriate to
spray was used following minor categorise the incidents as minor, and people can
incidents, and some women were still be a risk to themselves and others whilst
sprayed with pepper spray whilst inside their cell.
inside their cells.
Stays in segregated housing must not The fact a person is subject to a segregation
7 exceed 15 days. If, in absolutely direction does not mean they are subject to
exceptional circumstances, solitary confinement. A person subject to a
segregations have to last longer than segregation direction may continue to have
15 days, reasons for the segregation meaningful human contact with others. Note that
should be clearly documented and different forms of segregation and at-risk
substantively reviewed by an external management should not be conflated.
body
7 The over-representation of Māori and As noted above, further investigation is required
Pacific women in harsher forms of to determine if over-representation is statistically
segregation requires urgent attention significant.
as does the development of culturally
responsive programmes and
unconscious bias training.
Practices in hidden corners of Corrections’ management and ISU units are often
8 women’s prisons… characterised as ‘hidden’, which could imply that
practices are deliberately concealed. We do not
agree with this characterisation and request that
it be changed. Corrections’ management and ISU
units are subject to significant monitoring and
oversight from bodies such of the Office of the
Inspectorate and the Office of the Ombudsman.
In the interests of openness and transparency,
Corrections links to the Ombudsman OPCAT
reports on our website. The Inspectorate also
publishes prison inspection reports on their
website.
C141527

Women still only make for a small ARWCF was designed with the needs of women in
8-9 percentage (6.4%) of people in mind and Arohata has been re-built over the years
Aotearoa’s prisons. Thus, although to better suit the needs of women.
the needs of women in prison are
different to those of men, they are As noted, CWP is one of our Māori Pathway sites
incarcerated in prisons designed for focusing on co-designing an end-to-end Kaupapa
men and managed primarily in Māori pathway for women and their whānau. Te
accordance with rules and regulations Mana wahine is looking to transform how the
devised for men. This applies also to prison operates over the next four years and
segregation policies and practices. inform transformation at the other two women’s
prison sites.
13 Another common feature of women’s 6% and 4% are incorrect and are not the same
imprisonment is the type of calculation as the 63% and 16.7%. Pacific
overrepresentation of indigenous women currently represent 6.9% of the prison
women and women of colour. In New population of women and 8% of the general
Zealand, there is a grossly population of women and are therefore under-
disproportionate number of Māori represented.
women in prisons, making for as
many as 63% of all women in prison
(and only 16.7% of New Zealand’s
population) Pacific women are also
overrepresented in prisons, but the
gap is smaller: they make for 6% of
the prison population, but only 4% of
the general population.
15 In other words, some of the This is also the case for men in prison and is
behaviours which may be interpreted acknowledged in the way segregated people are
as violent or disruptive and lead to a managed. Those who exhibit violent or disruptive
woman’s placement in segregated behaviours are removed from the general
settings may be rooted in an organic population for their own safety, and the safety of
(physical) injury. others.
The picture was somewhat different The report only reports on the percentage of
18 in Intervention and Support Units European women in ISUs (33%), and yet this is a
across the three women’s prisons, minority. This suggests that other groups make up
where women deemed vulnerable a much greater proportion. The selective
were segregated, and where New presentation of data in this way is problematic
Zealand European women made up and misleading.
33% of all women.
C141527

Data used regarding women in The data used counts the number of starts in a
18/19 segregation designated unit of type “ISU (At risk)”, “separates”
or “management” in 2019, as provided. Attaching
a label of segregation to an ISU stay is inaccurate.
This is conflating different segregation and
management regimes.
Non-white and indigenous women There is no New Zealand evidence to support this
19 were more likely to be perceived as claim in the report, but the presentation of this
more dangerous and violent statement gives the impression that this is equally
relevant in New Zealand. These generalisations
are not evidence based. The use of international
research findings is highly selective and over-
relied upon throughout the report. The
international literature lacks specific details about
the method and reliability of finding.
19 Line graph - longer segregations by Incorrect use of line graphs to chart non-
ethnicity and unity type (women’s continuous data.
prisons).
The statement is based on opinion rather than
21 Staff attitudes at the unit appeared fact. The use of “I feel” and “there appear to be”
correspondingly harsh. statements are used throughout the report with
no evidence to support the statements.
The report notes that some women with
37 Women who were clearly unwell significant behavioural or mental health needs
remained in the prison rather than should be placed in mental health facilities, with
being transferred to hospital reference to one example at CWP. There is no
commentary on the number of women who are
under care of Forensic Mental Health Services in
prison or those who are unable to be transferred
to hospital due to lack of beds. This is relevant to
the concern about the number of very unwell
women we are trying to care for.
C141527

38 Suggestion that some incidents There is no clarification on what the author
should not be considered as considers the threshold for a legitimate “assault”
“assaults” should be.
The author suggests that some
incidents should not be considered
“assaults” against staff due to their
minor nature. It is not clarified what a
threshold for a legitimate “assault
should be.
39 Pepper spray was not in wide use In the 2019 calendar year there were 277
when I conducted my original review occasions on which pepper spray was deployed,
of restraint practices in 2017. During and 32 of those were at ARWCF. ARWCF does
2019, according to the data provided rank second in terms of deployment of pepper
to me, pepper spray was used 118 spray, but 7th equal with Otago Corrections Facility
times, 23 of which took place at and Manawatu Prison in terms of pepper spray
Auckland Women’s prison, and 1 in being deployed OR drawn and not deployed.
Arohata prison. In fact, Auckland
Women’s was second only to
Christchurch Men’s prison in its
absolute number of pepper spray uses
40 A case-by-case analysis of the The numbers reported are incorrect. In 2019
documentation provided to this there were 32 incidents of pepper spray use, 18
review has not reassured me that were to break up fights.
these tests were met in the majority
of uses. Of the 24 recorded uses of The report has attributed the use of pepper spray
pepper spray in women’s prisons in to activating sprinklers, non-compliance and
2019, it was used: refusing relocations when it was in response to
the individuals arming themselves, making
threats, taking a threatening stance, and abusing
officers
41
The incident described above There were 56 pepper spray incidents over 39
exemplifies some of the key issues months, and there in no clear defining line in the
around the manner in which events report between the discussion of pepper spray
escalate. Having reviewed and and use of force when the two are distinct issues.
analysed a large number of recorded
incident reports (on use of force and
assaults), a number of themes/issues
recur:
C141527

Some were sprayed with pepper-gas There are 56 actual deployments of pepper spray.
43 whilst inside their cells- their home- In that context, nothing was done ‘often’ and the
often without convincing reason or majority of incident reports detail attempts to de-
credible efforts to de-escalate escalate and warnings prior to deployment. The
situations first full text of incidents where pepper spray was
deployed proves this statement to be false.
46 The overrepresentation of Māori and Māori and pacific women are overrepresented in
Pacific women in harsher forms of the prison population as a whole.
segregated housing requires urgent
attention and the development of
culturally responsive programmes and
unconscious bias training.
48 Pepper spray should not be used in In 2019 pepper spray was drawn on 20 occasions
women’s prisons at all. My review of in women’s prisons where it was not subsequently
the records demonstrates time and deployed and was successful as a de-escalation
time again inappropriate use which measure. That is 36% of incidents where pepper
escalates 48 matters. Data does not spray was involved.
support the claim that its use would
reduce other use of force The analysis of pepper spray incidents
documented is not consistent with Corrections’
analysis.
51 Particular efforts shall be made to If this involves protecting women from unwanted
provide appropriate services for sexual harassment or violence from other
women prisoners who have incarcerated women how can this be juxtaposed
psychosocial support needs, especially against the recommendation to reduce
those who have been subjected to segregation?
physical, mental or sexual abuse.
C141527