GUIDELINES FOR USE OF
GENERATIVE ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE
IN COURTS AND TRIBUNALS
Lawyers
7 December 2023
The use of generative artificial intelligence (GenAI) (incl. chatbots such as ChatGPT, Bing Chat or Google Bard)
in the Aotearoa New Zealand legal context is increasing. The judiciary has overall responsibility for the integrity
of the administration of justice and court processes. It has developed these guidelines for the use of GenAI
chatbots to assist lawyers who represent clients in court and tribunal proceedings. This guidance applies in
relation to the courts and tribunals listed on page 7.
The guidelines remind lawyers that their existing professional obligations apply to the use of these new
technologies. They ask lawyers to exercise caution when using GenAI chatbots because of their risks and
limitations. They include practical suggestions for minimising the risks and to assist lawyers in complying with
their professional obligations when using GenAI chatbots.
EXISTING PROFESSIONAL OBLIGATIONS APPLY
Every practising lawyer in Aotearoa New Zealand has duties and obligations under the Lawyers and
Conveyancers Act 2006, and Lawyers and Conveyancers Act (Lawyers: Conduct and Client Care) Rules 2008
(Rules). This includes a fundamental obligation to uphold the rule of law, to facilitate the administration of
justice1 and the overriding duty of a lawyer as an officer of the court.2
As officers of the court, lawyers must not mislead the court.3 They must take all reasonable steps to ensure
the accuracy of information (including legal citations) provided to the court, and to avoid any risk of breaching
suppression orders. In addition, lawyers have obligations to their clients, opposing parties and opposing
counsel, including obligations to preserve and protect private and confidential information.
Any use of GenAI chatbots in the context of court and tribunal proceedings must be consistent with the
observance of lawyers’ obligations.
Anyone who has a complaint about a breach of the Rules by a lawyer can make a complaint to the New Zealand
Law Society’s Lawyers Complaints service.
1 Lawyers and Conveyancers Act 2006, s 4 and Lawyers and Conveyancers Act (Lawyers: Conduct and Client
Care) Rules 2008, r 2.
2 Lawyers and Conveyancers Act (Lawyers: Conduct and Client Care) Rules 2008, rr 2.1 and 13.
3 Rule 13.1.
Page 1 of 7

COMMON TERMS
Artificial Intelligence (AI): the theory and development of computer systems able to perform tasks normally
requiring human intelligence.
Generative AI (GenAI): a form of AI that enables users to quickly generate new content — can include text,
images, sounds and other data.
GenAI chatbot: computer programme for simulating online human conversations using generative AI.
ChatGPT: OpenAI’s GenAI chatbot — “Chat Generative Pre-Trained Transformer’’.
Google Bard: Google’s GenAI chatbot.
Bing Chat: Microsoft’s GenAI chatbot.
Large Language Model (LLM): an AI algorithm which, through sophisticated pattern recognition and
probabilistic calculations, learns to predict the next best word or part of a word in a sentence. Generative AI
chatbots generally use LLMs to generate responses to “prompts”.
Prompt: short instructions entered to a generative AI chatbot to obtain the desired answer/output.
Page 2 of 7

GUIDELINES FOR USE OF GENERATIVE AI
IN COURTS AND TRIBUNALS
1) Understand GenAI and its limitations
Before using GenAI chatbots ensure you have a basic understanding of their capabilities and limitations.
• GenAI chatbots are not search engines. They do not provide answers from authoritative databases
but, rather, generate new text using a complex algorithm based on the prompts they receive and the
data they have been “trained” on. This means the output generated by GenAI chatbots is what it
predicts to be the most likely combination of words (based on the documents and data that it holds
as source information). However, even if the output looks convincing, it may not be factually correct.
• The currently available GenAI chatbots appear to have had limited access to training data on New
Zealand law or on the procedural requirements that apply in New Zealand courts and tribunals.
• The quality of any answers you receive will depend on how the GenAI chatbot has been trained, the
reliability of the training data, and how you engage with the relevant GenAI chatbot, including the
“quality” of the prompts you enter.
• Even with the best prompts, the output may be inaccurate, incomplete, misleading, or biased.
2) Uphold confidentiality, suppression, and privacy
Generally, you should not enter any information into an AI chatbot that is not already in the public domain.
Do not enter any information that is private, confidential, suppressed or legally privileged information.
• Some GenAI chatbots can remember every question that you ask them, as well as any other
information you put into them. They could then use that information to respond to queries from other
users. As a result, anything you type into a GenAI chatbot could become publicly known. This could
breach suppression orders, statutory prohibitions on publication, privacy, or disclose confidential or
sensitive information that may cause serious harm.
• In the event of unintentional disclosure of private, confidential, suppressed or privileged information,
you should take steps of the kind that would otherwise be expected to be taken following the
unintended disclosure of information (e.g. if a suppression order is breached, contact the registry as
soon as possible).
• You should disable the chat history in AI chatbots if this option is available.4
• Further information about privacy and AI tools is available on the Privacy Commissioner’s website.
• In future, law firms may have access to an in-house GenAI chatbot that protects confidential,
suppressed, and private information. If that occurs this portion of the guidelines may be less relevant,
however lawyers will continue to be bound by the relevant obligations and statutory prohibitions
regarding privilege, suppression, and publication.
• The use of GenAI may raise copyright issues. Compliance with the law of copyright is your
responsibility.
4 This option is currently available in ChatGPT and Google Bard but not yet in Bing Chat.
Page 3 of 7

3) Ensure accountability and accuracy
You are responsible for ensuring that all information you provide to the court/tribunal is accurate. You must
check the accuracy of any information you have been provided with by a GenAI chatbot (including legal
citations) before using that information in court/tribunal proceedings.
Information provided by GenAI chatbots is known to be inaccurate, incomplete, or out of date. It may be based
on overseas law that does not apply in New Zealand.
GenAI chatbots may:
• make up fictitious cases, citations or quotes, or refer to legislation, articles or legal texts that do not
exist;
• provide incorrect or misleading information on the law or how it might apply;
• make factual errors; and
• confirm that information is accurate if asked, even when it is not.
Fictitious material produced by GenAI chatbots can seem as though it has been taken from a real source even
when it has not.
All information generated by a GenAI chatbot should be checked by an appropriately qualified person for
accuracy before it is used or referred to in court or tribunal proceedings
4) Be aware of ethical issues
Have regard to ethical issues – particularly biases and the need to address them.
• GenAI chatbots generate responses based on the dataset they are trained on (which is generally
information from the internet). Information generated by a Gen AI chatbot will reflect any biases or
misinformation in its training data.
• GenAI chatbots generally do not account for New Zealand’s cultural context, nor specific cultural
values and practices of Māori and Pasifika.
5) Disclosing GenAI use
You do not need to disclose use of a GenAI chatbot as a matter of course – unless asked by the court or tribunal.
• Provided these guidelines have been followed (in particular, checking for accuracy), the key risks
associated with GenAI should have been adequately addressed. However, a court or tribunal may ask
or require lawyers to disclose GenAI use.
Page 4 of 7

FAQs
What are GenAI Chatbots and how do they work?
GenAI chatbots, such as ChatGPT, Google Bard and Bing Chat, are AI tools that have been trained to respond
in a conversational, online chat style. Users can enter prompts (questions) to get the GenAI chatbot to do
things like generate or summarise text or answer questions. They can then enter more prompts to refine the
chatbot’s response.
GenAI chatbots are built on AI algorithms called Large Language Models (LLMs). LLMs analyse a large amount
of training text to predict the probability of the next best word in a sentence given the context. Just as Google
offers to autocomplete your search, LLMs autocomplete repeatedly to form words, sentences, and paragraphs
of text.
LLMs have been further trained on ideal human written responses to prompts, and on survey results, about
which responses sounds most natural or best mimic human dialogue.
What information is used to generate the response I receive?
As GenAI chatbots output the next best word based on the text contained in their LLMs dataset, the source,
quality, diversity and any bias of that text will determine the responses received.
Generally, the text used to train GenAI comes from various internet sources, such as webpages, online books,
and social media posts. There appears to be limited New Zealand legal information in the training text, and to
date the training text does not include a significant body of New Zealand cases. This impacts the accuracy of
any legal information a GenAI chatbot may provide, although legal information on the internet, such as
legislation and some legal commentary, may form part of the dataset.
GenAI chatbots cannot distinguish between facts, inferences and opinions contained in its dataset. This means
that text generated by GenAI chatbots may contain incorrect, opinionated, misleading or biased statements
presented as fact. The training data used by some chatbots may also be out of date.
GenAI draws on data that has been previously inputted by users. That means it may, depending on the
platform and privacy settings, retain anything that users enter as prompts.
In terms of bias and harmful or dangerous information, algorithmic countermeasures have been employed to
reduce the chance that such data ends up being used in GenAI chatbot responses. However, these
countermeasures do not eliminate the risk of biases or harmful or dangerous information being included in
responses.
Why am I receiving incorrect information?
As GenAI chatbots base their responses on probability-derived calculations about the next best word in
context, they are unable to reliably answer questions that require a nuanced understanding of language
content. These tools have no intrinsic understanding of what any word they output means, nor a conception
of truth.
GenAI chatbots are known to produce false information that may appear true — this is called ‘‘hallucinating’’.
In the legal field, this may lead to GenAI chatbots making up non-existent cases, changing facts, and producing
incorrect citations. By their very nature, LLMs will produce answers that sound convincing even when they are
entirely fictitious.
Page 5 of 7

Multimedia-generative AI
Multimedia-generating AI, such as DALL·E, Midjourney and Stable Diffusion, have emerged alongside text
generative AI. These tools have been trained so that the algorithm can best predict the patterns and styles
associated with different multimedia forms and their text descriptions. They are then able to generate new
multimedia (i.e. images, audio or video) that is similar in style and content.
This technology allows for the creation of multimedia that appear authentic but are fake. These multimedia
are known as ‘deepfakes’ and can be defamatory or spread dangerous misinformation or disinformation.
Concerns may arise over the authenticity of multimedia when used in evidence.
What are some tasks that GenAI may and may not be suitable for?
GenAI chatbots are trained to recognise and reproduce sophisticated patterns in the form of language so they
are best suited to natural language processing tasks. These tasks include summarising text by making it shorter
or changing its tone or format; and generating new text in a requested format.
GenAI chatbots have been trained on large datasets containing extensive knowledge. This means they can
often provide useful information about a certain topic and answers to specific questions. However, when used
for these purposes it is important to remember that GenAI chatbots can ‘hallucinate’ and provide incorrect or
inaccurate information.
Heads of Bench Committee
Artificial Intelligence Advisory
OWNER APPROVED BY Tribunals Aotearoa Executive
Group
Tribunal/Authority chairs
FIRST ISSUED 7 December 2023 LAST UPDATED 7 December 2023
Page 6 of 7

These guidelines apply to:
Courts of New Zealand:
Senior Courts Specialist courts
• Supreme Court • Te Kooti Pīra Māori | Māori Appellate Court
• Court of Appeal • Te Kooti Whenua Māori | Māori Land Court
• High Court • Employment Court
• Environment Court
District Court
• Coroners Court
• District Court
• Court Martial
• Family Court
• Summary Appeal Court
• Youth Court
• Court Martial Appeal Court
Permanent Commissions of Inquiry:
• Te Rōpū Whakamana i Te Tiriti o Waitangi | Waitangi Tribunal
Tribunals:
Civil Professional Disciplinary and Licensing
• Canterbury Earthquakes Insurance Tribunal • Building Practitioners Board
• Copyright Tribunal • Cadastral Surveyors Licensing Board
• Disputes Tribunal • Chartered Professional Engineers Council
• Employment Relations Authority • Electrical Workers Registration Board
• Human Rights Review Tribunal • Lawyers and Conveyancers Disciplinary Tribunal
• Motor Vehicle Disputes Tribunal • Legal Complaints Review Officer
• Sports Tribunal of New Zealand • Licensing Authority of Secondhand Dealers and
• Tenancy Tribunal Pawnbrokers
• Private Security Personnel Licensing Authority
Administrative review • Social Workers Complaints and Disciplinary Tribunal
• Customs Appeals Authority • Trans-Tasman Occupations Tribunal
• Electricity Rulings Panel
• Immigration and Protection Tribunal
• Land Valuation Tribunal
• Legal Aid Tribunal
• Legal Aid Review Authority
• Mental Health Review Tribunal
• Social Security Appeal Authority
• Taxation Review Authority
• Veterans’ Entitlement Appeal Board
(formerly War Pensions Appeal Boards)
Page 7 of 7