1. I am the applicant. Of this proceeding.
Background
2. I have had chronic pain. “CPS.” since around 2004. Analgesics were having little or no effect.
And I saw many GP's who didn't understand what my pain condition was., I got to a stage
sometimes where I was bedridden with excruciating pain. A Rawini GP Recommended Voltaren
and medicine named diclofenac. Which was the first medication or was given which worked?
Around 2005 to 2006. I was referred to Doctor Michael Butler. In Auckland pain clinic.
Specialist. Who diagnosed my condition as a? (Postulated neural central sensitization disorder)
And said that. “Some authorities might label this as fibre myalgia syndrome.”. I remember
having a conversation with Doctor Butler about the long-term effects of Voltaren and use. But I
informed him. The day-to-day quality of life. By far outweighed the long-term risks of taking
Voltaren. Doctor Butler understood my position and that Present Management as optimal. In a
letter dated. 4th. September. 2006. Doctor Butler stated that. “His symptoms are under
reasonable control on Voltaren 75 mg.SR 1 bid.” Letters from Doctor Butler to Mount Eden
Prison attached as Exhibit A.
3. Over the years my chronic pain condition has persisted. I get the same pain symptoms now
that I used to get back in 2004 with my pain levels would reach 10 out of 10 on the pain scale of
unmanaged. Since then, I have used Voltaren as well as other self-regulation techniques to
manage my pain. voltaren has been the only medication that manages my pain to where I can
lead a normal life. Without Voltaren, my pain becomes very significant and persistent to the
point we are virtually crippled with pain.
4. I have been imprisoned a number of times and queried by prison healthcare services on arrival
about my long term Voltaren use. And after I have made prison GPS aware that I was under
Doctor Butler. For chronic pain syndrome in it, Voltaren is the only medication that works for
me. All the prison GPS by those at issue here accepted that. Extracts from various prison files
attached as Exhibit B. 1.
Auckland South Corrections Facility.
5. On 16 May 2018, I was transferred from Mount Eden. To Auckland South Corrections
Facility. It reception I made a nurse aware that I had a chronic pain condition and met I was on
Voltaren for it. Thereafter the voter and script I was on it Mount Eden. Continued. And I was
provided with Voltaren. Patient medical history. “PMH.” page 118. Is attached. In exhibit C
6. On 29 May 2018, I saw ASCF GP. Doctor Reesa Thomas For my initial health assessment.
Doctor Thomas asked why I was on Voltaren. I told Doctor Thomas that I had gone to the Green
Lane Pain Clinic and that Doctor Michael Butler had diagnosed me is having chronic pain
syndrome. I explained in detail about my chronic pain condition. That Voltaren was the only
painkiller that worked for me. And that doctor, Michael Butler, was aware of it. I told her that I

was on it for approximately 15 years and that i was well aware of the side effects. Of long term
voltaren use. I told her that I'm very careful to take it with food or omeprazole. And I've never
had any serious problems.
7. Doctor Thomas asked me whether or not I was aware of any problems with my liver. I
informed Doctor Thomas that my previous GP. Dr J Rosby, at Auckland City Mission Clinic.
Made me aware that my ALT. Levels were high and that she needed to monitor my ALT levels
through a series of blood tests over a period of time. GP. Doctor Rosby. Said she's not sure. As to
why my alt levels were high. But it could be caused by a number of reasons other than my long-
term diclofenac use. Doctor Rosby. said if it becomes more of a problem then she would refer
me back to the pain clinic for specialist Doctor Butler to assist. What is the best way forward?
And also, to see if there are any advances in medication for my particular chronic pain condition.
Treatment/Medication witheld
8. The next day. On 30th of May. 2018. I went to triage to get my voltaren medication. But I was
informed by the health care assistant. That the GP had stopped my Voltaren. I was not informed
of this during my GP consultation the day before. Had I been, I would have objected to having
no Voltaren for pain relief. Because I know how bad and out of control my pain gets without it.
The GP didn't even hint to me that she was thinking of stopping my vote. Aaron. There's no
conversation Around. The fit that she wanted to stop it. This left me stuck. There is no
reschedule mentioned from the healthcare assistant. there was no pain management plan or
monitoring plan put in place regarding my physiological or mental wellbeing. At this point I had
a very strong sense that I was going to run into further issues, so I started recording events on
what I call my timeline.
9. Around 27 January 2023 I obtained my patient medical history. There is no entry in my patient
medical history which shows that Doctor Thomas which annotates reference to my chronic pain
syndrome or that I had been diagnosed by Doctor Butler. And more importantly, that I told her
that voltaren was essential for managing my day-to-day pain. PMH 29/5/18 pages 115/116
attached as exhibit ‘D’
10. By 31st May 2018. It was 72 hours since my last Voltaren. I let nurse know that I was
experienced pain. The nurse told me that they had let the health care Team know. I received a
message via CMS that I have a future appointment to see the nurse at triage but if urgent, see
medical staff. I recorded in my pain diary that I had slight pain around my jaw and neck muscles
Pain in my shoulders. and bruising feeling in the back of left lung. On 1/6/18. I was experiencing
more pain and recorded it in my timeline as follows.
Very uncomfortable sleep due to pain.
Getting hard to move or turn. Must move very slowly.
Feels as if my internal organs are inflamed.

I feel I'm hitting back to that place where I must continually move or. ill seaze up and the pain
will settle in.
Constant tightness around shoulders. Feels like having guilt. Inflammation Throughout my body.
Timeline TL 31/5/18 - 1/6/18 attached as exhibit ‘E’
First complaint
11. On 1/6/18. At. 4.07 PM I spoke to Paul. It corrections, complaints disc regarding an
appropriate withdrawal of treatment for my chronic pain syndrome. Paul said he will e-mail head
of healthcare. At Auckland South Corrections Facility. This complaint opened a file with the
Prison Inspectorate. CCD/01 and Insperate record attached as exhibit ‘F’
12. I also called the Health and Disability Advocacy Service. I spoke to Advocate Chris
Shepherd and lodged a complaint. HDAS complaint reort attached as exhibit ‘G’
Formal Complaint
13. On 4/6/18 having no response to CCD/ 01. And being in pain, I submitted a formal. PC 01.
Prisoner complaint. Form raising the following key issues.
I had had chronic pain syndrome for over 15 years and was suffering and pain.
I was under a specialist. Doctor Michael Butler.
My medication stopped without being informed.
Prisoner complaint form. PC 01/ #2. - Reg: 477695. Attached as exhibit 'H’
14. On 11/6/18. Tracy Mitchell, head of Auckland South. Corrections Facility. Healthcare.
Emailed CCD which stands for (Corrections Complaints Desk) in response to my. 4/6/18. PC 01.
Stating that
She the GP. His temporarily stopped his voltaren as his blood tests are very elevated. Which is a
side effect of long-term use of Voltaren. It appears this was explained to him.
A further appointment has been booked.
Tracy Mitchell. E-mail to CCD. Attached is exhibit 'I’.
15. As stated above. I hate discussed. voltarens side effects with Doctor Thomas? But there had
been no discussions about stopping my pain relief. I informed her that I had discussed elevated.
ALT. Readings with my GP Doctor Rosby. But there is no record by Doctor Thomas regarding
my ALT levels. In the P image. Or her conferring was either Doctor Butler or Doctor Rosby
16. Having had no response in being in pain. On or around 11618 I contacted in spoke to Chris
Shepard from. Health and disability advocacy service again. Chris informed me that she had sent
the complaint letter to Auckland South. Corrections Facility. HDAS letter to ASCF attached as
exhibit ‘J’

Voltaren reinstated for 1 month
17. On 14/6/18. I saw the regular ASCF GP doctor Emmanuel Ampofo. By then I had head. 15
days. No pain relief. I made GP aware that I had been diagnosed as having chronic pain
syndrome by Doctor Butler and asked him to get my pain clinic file I informed the GP that I had
been on Voltaren for years and that I'm well aware of the risks. The GP prescribed me one month
supply of all Karen. I asked for longer as I was extremely stressed and worried that there could
be a problem getting a repeat. But my request was declined. PMH 14/6/18 /114 attached as
exhibit ‘K’
18. On 27/6/18 I received a copy of ASCF Head of Healthcare Tracy Mitchell's response to my
complaints to corrections and to HD AS. HR/#4,-ASCF Healthcare letter 28/6/18 attached as
exhibit ‘L’
19. This response is not accurate. Tracy Mitchell stated that I dispute the side effects of
medication. Which I did not and dont. Tracy Mitchell said that the Doctor Thomas noted that she
would hold voltaren in the meantime there is no such notation by Doctor Thomas in my patient
medical history Moreover, Doctor Thomas did not even hint to me during our conversation that
she wanted to hold the voltaren in the meantime.
20. On 1/7/18 I had a consultation with mental health nurse Courtney Barlow. I told her that I
was really struggling with issues regarding my offending and then I needed some counselling. I
confided in this nurse as I would confide in a mental health counsellor, being confident that what
I said. Would be held in confidence.
21. Recently I received my patient medical history. And I discovered, to my horror. The news
Barlow made reference to my index offending in my patient medical history. Which? Effectively
was available for all medical staff to see. I have named suppression. For my charges. In this
information should not have been available. PMH page 112 atttached as exhibit ‘M’
22. I did not give consent. For this information to be written up in my patient medical history. In
news, Barlow did not inform me she would be doing this. I would have not disclosed this
information if I knew it was going to be put on my General Medical file for all to see. I now
believe that this may have been the reason so many medical staff treated me the way they did. Is
sitting up below in particularly is some seemed to be Repeating. Exactly what nurse, Barlow said
on occasion.
23. Recently I spoke with Jan Te Maru. Current head of ASCF. Healthcare. Jan informed me that
this information. Should have been recorded in a separate folder which could only be accessed
by corrections Psychological Services.
24. On 12/7/18. I saw Doctor Emanuel Ampofo. I asked if my pain clinic files have arrived yet.
he said no and that he will Request them again. Doctor Ampofo. Did request my file but
mistakenly addressed the request to middle more. Which did not hold my file. Letter to
Middlemore Hospital attached as exhibit ‘N’

25. I asked Doctor Ampofo If there was any damage to my liver from voter and youth. He said
no noticeable side effect, all liver damage. That he attributed to voltaren use GP said. That's why
I gave you another month. I asked for longer. Because if I must a consultation for any reason
then I won't be left without medication. But the doctor declined. Doctor Ampofo said If we were
in the community. He would Just let my meds go but said ‘in prison, it's different’. The GP also
said that my ALT reading was high. But that doesn't necessarily mean as from prolonged
Voltaren use
26. On 9/8/18. I was supposed to have a GP consultation, but I was told at triage. That he was on
leave for four weeks. This left me stressed. This is exactly why I had anxiety and had been
asking GP for more than one month supply of voltaren. No reschedule was communicated to me.
Nor was there any forward plan to manage my physiological or mental well-being. In my PMH
(Patient Medical History) it is noted that no file notes have arrived and that im wait listed as a
priority 3 PMH 7/8/18 page 109 attached as exhibit ‘O’
27. On 12/8/18 at 9.40 AM. I had a psych consultation with mental health nurse. Courtney
Barlow. I had requested an emergency GP appointment and reported that my medication /
treatment will run out in a few days and be left stuck. The nurse refused, stating. “The were no
emergency appointments” and saying that. “Not unless it's a life-or-death situation” I then made
nurse aware that I was very stressed and frustrated about this whole ordeal. But I just got a blank
response. I left you feeling worse in Unvalidated. PMH. 12/8/18. Page 108. Attached as exhibit.
“P”
28. I see in the PMH Nurse Barlow has recorded in the PMH. That I reported that I was?
“Feeling more Positive” In my timeline, I record that I made her aware that I'm really stressed
and frustrated with this whole ordeal. But then I just got a blank response. I left her feeling worse
and invalidated. On the same day it 2.45 pm I spoke with RN Bibbin at triage and requested that
my voltaren/treatment be continued. In the interim until I can get to see a GP again He said. He
will talk to the healthcare team tomorrow. The next day. On 13/8/18. I asked the nurse if there
was any feedback from healthcare regarding continuation of Voltaren. Nurse said I must wait to
see the doctor TL 12/8/18 attached as exhibit ‘Q’
29. On 14/8/18. RN Bibbin calledme into triage to inform me that ASCF healthcare have decided
not to continue Voltaren in the interim, he said all they can do is wait for my pain clinic files.
This. As detailed in Exhibit P.
30. I asked RN Bibbin if I could get an emergency GP appointment. But he refused and it was
his opinion that any further GP appointments were pointless until my notes arrive from the pain
clinic or any other evidence in regard to my claims of having. Chronic pain syndrome. RN
Bibbin Questioned whether or not I had a case of addiction, which is an echo of what nurse
Courtney said on 29/7/18. Also 26/8/18. PMH. Page. 110 attached is exhibit 'R’.

31. On the same day at 2:00 PM, I Ring HDAS and spoke to Chris Shepherd. I told her I'm still
having problems and Chris said that this issue has already been dealt with on 28/6/18 in the
ASCF health care response letter and that I can't re complain about the same issue.
32. On 16/8/18, I noted in my pain diary. “Feeling very tired and sore, my emotions are low,
extremely uncomfortable sleep and pain keeps me up. Painful to shift positions, feels like my
muscles are spasming, pain located in torso at the moment, feels tender and raw, I spoke to a
prison inspector around this time about how my CPS was not being managed properly. TL
16/8/18 attached as exhibit ‘S’
33. Also, on 16/8/18, I rang corrections complaints desk and spoke with Nick about not being
able to see a GP. CCD/02 attached as exibit ‘T’
34. On 19 8/18 At triage I requested 25 mg Voltaren from the nurse, as in the community, I can
just go to the chemist. There is no prescription needed for 25 mg voltaren. She declined. Also, on
19/8/18. My pain diary read. “My upper body feels extremely light. Like my skin has been
stretched out like possum skin on a board. Extremely uncomfortable. Muscles around the back
and shoulders, tight but tender. It feels like my organs are being stabbed. When I'm lying down,
it's very difficult to shift positions, it's very painful. Stiffness around neck and jaw, Loss of sleep.
Starting to feel constantly tired and battling with my emotions. I feel very unwell. Need still and
quiet. - Meditation, focus on heartbeat.” This extract from my timeline is an exhibit ‘S’
35. On 20/8/18, I reached out to Officer Maude. I told her I was struggling with emotions, as
well as pain during the night and how it was beginning to affect my well-being. I said I was
getting frustrated and angry and was feeling that I'm getting pushed beyond what I can handle. I
nearly lost the plot a few times and i feel like no one cares. Officer Maud told me she had spoken
to nurses who said they will come and see me at lunchtime. The nurse didn't come so it 3.30 PM,
I reached out to Nurse Vince. I explained the situation. In requested 25 mg Voltaren, but he
declined, saying that they only come in 75 mg. He did say, however, that a RN or (registered
Nurse) can use his discretion to provide Voltaren in the interim. Nurse Vince said to come see
him tomorrow at triage. It 9. 00 PM. My pain diary states: Very sore, can't even relax when lying
down, it feels so tender, very sore, very stressful. Uncomfortable. When I sneeze it feels like my
lungs are being stabbed. Pain level 7 /10 in spikes to 9 /10, I'm not feeling well at all. I'm
struggling emotionally. Struggling, stressed, tired but can't rest. TL page attached as exhibit ‘U’
36. The next day on 21/8/18, 11:30 AM. News Vince informed me that the health care team will
be having a meeting today in regards to putting together a plan or looking at giving me pain
management in the interim until my pain clinic files arrive. Around 4. 00 PM. I was informed
that health care cannot prescribe pain relief. I told nurse Vince that I was really struggling with
pain and could barely sleep. He just said go and see a registered nurse It triage. And explain my
situation, as they can decide to give me pain relief “If it's obvious.” PMH 21/8/18 page 107
attached as exhibit ’V’

37. On 22 August 18. After seven days with no pain relief. I went to triage and relayed to Nurse
Sanjay what Nurse Vince? had said about asking a registered nurse for help. Are in Sanjay gave
me Voltaren for three days. The next day on 23818I recorded in my pain diary that I had a pain
free sleep, and that I feel great in relieved. TL page 11 atached as exhibit ‘W’
38. On 26/8/18 I had a counselling session with nurse Courtney. I made her aware that I had been
struggling with my pain and emotions and that Nurse Sanjay gave me Voltaren for three days,
which has helped to settle my pain down. Nurse Courtney started questioning again whether my
need for Voltaren was because I got a long history of addiction. She suggested that my pain was
in my mind. Later on that day, Nurse Sanjay informed me that he got into trouble for supplying
me with Voltaren. Pain relief and said he will not supply me Voltaren again. TL page 12 attached
as exhibit ‘X’
39. On 27/8/18, I was told by staff. That I had a GP appointment. The prison officers were
unorganized, so I ended up missing movement., I was trying to get an officer to call another
movement to health care for my appointment. But then they told me that the GP did not show.
Later on that day, RN Sanjay asked why I didn't go to my appointment. As the GP was waiting
for me. I was extremely frustrated as I missed my chance to potentially get pain relief.
40. On 27/8/18 I went to triage to ask for Voltaren, remembering what Nurse Vince said about
just going to triage. In explaining my situation. the nurse i didn't know was very unhelpful and
abrupt Towards me, triggering my frustrations to boil over and i verbally lost the plot
Misconduct report reg: 399812 attached as exhibit ‘Y’
41. Soon after. Supervisor Saane came in to explain the full situation around why I missed the
GP appointment. This misconduct is a direct result of being emotional and physically rundown.
This misconduct might not have happened if the supervisor or health care explained the situation
to me earlier.
42. On 29th of the 8th 18. The four days with no pain relief, I had a consultation with the
different. E-mail GP. I reported the following.
I explained. In detail my history of chronic pain.
Length of time on Voltaren.
And that I was under Doctor Butler. Pain specialist.
I also made her aware that I was struggling and feeling very run down emotionally and described
my pain to her. PMH 106 attached as exhibit ‘Y-1’
43. The GP recommended Naproxen as she said that my kidney and liver tests were abnormal
and consistent with prolonged Voltaren use, although the last Test was done three to four months
previously on 25/5/18. Refer to the chart below. The GP booked me for an X-ray. I knew this
was just a wild goose chase; his eye had already been diagnosed with a neural central
sensitization disorder. that can't be seen on an Xray

RFT/LFT Tests 25/5/18
RFT/LFT Tests
25/5/18
Liver Function Tests
ALT: 92U/L (≤45) H
High
Exhibit PMH/155
25/8/18
Renal Function Test
Potassium: 5.3 mmol/L (3.5-5.2)
High
Exhibit PMH/154
44. On 5/9/18, I noted that naproxen was only just taking the edge off my pain and that I needed
a higher dose, as the dose I was given is only the equivalent to a 25mg voltaren. I usually use 1
to 2, 75 mg of Voltaren per day to manage my pain, depending on how it fluctuates. TL page 13
attached as exhibit ‘Z’
45. On 17/9/18 I rang and spoke with Nick from the Corrections complaints disk. I asked if my
Prisoner complaint from (PC01) 17/8/18 regarding. “No excess to GP” Had been lodged. Nick
said There was no e-mail response from ASCF healthcare. (ref: 68335) Exibit: CCD/02(c)
attached as exibit ‘AA’
46. I have a long standing hemorrhoid problem that I had abandoned procedure for on 5/9/18. On
26918, I developed acute rectal bleeding that was running down my legs. Officers then called a
code blue. On arrival to Middlemore Hospital, there was a bit of confusion as to why I was there,
Hospital staff seemed very annoyed. When they queried as to why I was there, the ambulance
driver said. That the head of healthcare. Tracy Mitchell. Told ambulance driver to go to
Middlemore rather than Auckland Emergency as had been advised by Doctor Ampofo. PMH
page 103 and ACS Ambulance Care Summary, pg. 2 of 3, attached as exhibit ‘AB’
47. On 28918 Middlemore Hospital clinician Peninatautele Taimalelagi. informed me that i was
ready to be discharged. i was a bit shocked to learn that i was getting discharged as it had not
been ascertained where my bleeding had actually come from. Clinician Peninatautele Said that
“it was most likely” from my hemorrhoid procedure. i asked her why it wasn't near a proper

examination to determine the exact cause of bleeding and she said over in quotes because i was
at Middlemore,i was only there for observation We had a discussion around my medication and
she recommended that I try Gabapentin as an alternative to Naproxen. She said its very strong
and treats all varieties of pain. I was very reluctant. But she said, just try it out on a trial run. And
she’ll request the prison GP to monitor it. I agreed in the end and i was returned to to prison
Pages from CMH clinical notes dated 28/9/18 and discharge summary attached as exhibit ‘AC’
48. On1/10/18., I had a consultation with GP Emmanuel Ampofo. I expressed my concern that
Middlemore had not ascertained what the actual cause of my bleeding was. I also expressed that
I was not happy about being on another new medication. The GP said he will re-refer me back to
Middlemore and that the gabapentin script was only for three days. He said he must request an
authority number for gabapentin and then there had to be a discussion with Tracy Mitchell
regarding whether the prison will allow gabapentin. I requested Naproxen in the interim. As I
was in pain but he refused. On the basis that it is unclear whether or not The bleeding was
attributed to Voltaren or Naproxen. The GP suggested using Panadol, but I explained to him
again that Panadol doesn't work. I asked the GP if a referral had been made to the pain clinic and
he said he would talk to health care. I explained that I was in pain and that it was affecting me
mentally and then I feel like breaking down because I was left yet again with no pain
management. The the GP just said sorry my hands are tied and said again that if we were out in
the public he could help me. I said this is wrong and I'm continuously being left to endure pain.
The GPS said well, just ring your emergency button and ask for Benadryl. This was right after I
had explained the Panadol doesn't work for me. PMH 1/10/18, page 102, attached as exhibit.
‘AD’.
49. My PMH shows that on 16/10/18. ASCF made a request for a “Chronic pain referral” to
Middlemore. This request was rejected. The reason given being. “Assessment [was] not
required” He was provided with records which show that the Middlemore Pain Clinic “Focuses
on teaching patients' nonpharmacological self-management strategies” which they did not see as
being able to be done in a prison setting. PMH page 153 and MMH records are attached as
Exhibit ‘AE’.
50. From the outset, I had explained that I utilized all normal self-management strategies but
needed medication when pain was intense. I also note that MMH suggested a gradual increase in
gabapentin up to 1800 megs per day.but ASCF Did not take this expert advice.
51. On 14/10/18. I was told by RN Adah With the pain clinic; referral was declined as they don't
take prisoners. I was told by RN Adah That ACF Healthcare still doesn't have my pain clinic
files yet. Five months after my arrival at Auckland South corrections facility. I informed the
nurse that I was still experiencing a lot of pain, more so overnight and that my shoulders and
torso is really sore from having chronic pain. RN Ada booked me for a GP appointment as well
as one with physio. On 18/10/18, I had My next GP consultation was Doctor Emmanuel Ampofo
I made him aware that gabapentin was not working and that I still had a lot of pain around my
shoulders and torso, which has been typical of my condition. The GP ordered an X-ray. I

mentioned to the GP that I have already been through this before. “Pre Pain Clinic 2005” I
reminded him that I was previously under Doctor Michael Butler and that my pain symptoms
point towards fibromyalgia syndrome or postulated neural sensitization disorder. I see it “I just
need to be back on the right medication. That's always worked for me.” the GP seed he will still
try and give me back to the pain clinic. The GP then noted in my PMH that gabapentin was
working well. After I just finished telling him it wasn't. PMH pages 101 & 100 attached as
exhibit ‘AF’
52. On 23/10/18, still in a high level of constant pain. I made a CMS request to see a nurse so I
can be referred to see the GP. I was booked for the nurse on 27/10/18, but the noose. Did not
show up.
53. I rebooked again for a referral on 6/11/18. but the noose again failed to attend, although this
is not recorded in my PMH. Just living with this pain for one day is unbearable, let alone having
to endure it day after day, week after week, cancellation after cancellation.
54. All through the month of November, I tried talking to the nurses about my struggle with pain
and the immediate urgency of it. I just kept getting told there was nothing they could do and that
I just had to put it on CMS. The response on CMS was typically. “Nurse indicates that a further
appointment is required, this has been booked, this request is now closed, If your condition is
urgent, speak with an officer immediately.” When I reached out to Zuko officers. They would go
see a nurse who tells them to tell me to put it on CMS again.
55. On 10/12/18. I reached out to a nurse and made the nurse aware that I was in pain and that I
had a chronic pain condition. PHP page 95 attached as Exhibit ‘AG’
56. On 12/10/18. I started anxiety classes with Nurse Courtney. At the end of the class, I reached
out and made nurse Courtney aware that I was really struggling with my pain levels. She showed
no interest or empathy.
57. On 13/12/18, I had a consultation with GP Emmanuel Ampofo, I had waited nearly two
months for this appointment. I explained to the GP that gabapentin was not working after 76
days. From when I started it. On 28/9/18 And that I was still in significant amounts of pain,
which at night becomes unbearable. I tried to make him aware that I was really struggling with
having to endure long periods of pain, I told the GP it always on the verge of having an
emotional breakdown and that I just want all of this sorted out. The GPS said he couldn't
override the hospital, and that the hospital has to change gabapentin so there was nothing he
could do. (although he did override it in a later date.) I asked for a re referral back to Middlemore
hospital., and Then he said he will talk to Health care. About the referral back to hospital. I
reminded the GP that Gabapentin was a trial which he was supposed to monitor. As this was not
being done. I expressed again that it was not working for me, The GP just keeps saying. “Sorry,
there's nothing I can do” I was becoming frustrated. As I could tell. I was going to be left to
endure more pain in suffering. And I said to the GP. “You say the same thing repeatedly. I said
you can't do something; you're the GP, you can't just leave me on a trial of medication that is not

working for me”. Whilst desperately pleading my case with the GP, one of the nurses must have
pressed the alarm because the door opened and there were officers standing there telling me that
my consultation was over. I vented out of pure frustration about my consultation being cut short
with no resolution for my pain. Although she had not been present during my consultation, Head
of ASCF health care Tracey Mitchell charged me with a behavioral misconduct. PMH 13/12/18
and Misconduct report attached as exhibit ‘AH’
58. The misconduct. report stated that i was upset as i “had been seeking medication that the
hospital had recommended we did not prescribe (sic)” this is not an accurate account. i was in
intense pain and wanted pain relief. the gabapentin was only a trial and was not working at the
dose that ASCF provided, 500mg per day less than a third Middlemore had suggested It's been
increased up to. In the comments provided to ASCF on 30/10/18 When rejecting and teaching
assessment. I wanted to go back on the naproxen ASCF had prescribed, which was not as
effective as voltaren, but at least gave some relief.
59. On 13/12/18 In the consultation. I pleaded with. Someone psych. Nurse Joyce. I told her that
I'm in a lot of pain and I was really struggling. Pusto, I said that sometimes everything gets on
top of me. They're unfairly coping emotionally and that I wanted to see a GP to back on
naproxen. or preferably Voltaren The nurse replied in a derogatory manner, saying well, what if
we put you back on Naproxen again? You decide that naproxen doesn't work for you!” I felt
despondent by this. Is then expressed. That I'm sensitive to noise and then I'm struggling with the
noise from the wing and by the end of the day my ears are ringing so loud i need long periods of
quiet. The nurse dismissively said, “we’ll you shouldn't come to jail then” then said, “wear
earplugs”. I left the consultation feeling very low and degraded. PMH 14/11/18 page 98 attached
as exhibit ’AJ’
60. On 14/11/18, in a consultation, I pleaded with someone psychic, Ness Joyce. I told her that
I'm in a lot of pain and I was really struggling. I said that sometimes everything gets on top of
me. That I'm barely coping emotionally and that I wanted to see a GP to get back on Naproxen or
preferably Voltaren. The nurse replied in a derogatory manner, saying. “Well, what if we put you
back on Naproxen and then you decide that Naproxen doesn't work for you! I felt disheartened
by this remark. I then expressed that I'm sensitive to noise. And that I'm struggling with the noise
from the wing and that by the end of the day my ears are ringing so loud I need long periods of
quiet. The nurse dismissively said. “Well, you shouldn't come to jail then” Then said “Wear
earplugs” I left the consultation feeling very low and degraded.PMH 14/11/18 attached as exibit
‘AJ’
61. On 14/12/18. I called Chris Sheppard at Health and Disability Advocacy Service who agreed
that the GP is right. In saying he can't override the hospital. Chris said. I don't have a complaint.
Later I went to triage to get meds and asked Nurse Vince if there was any feedback for me
regarding my request for a re referral Back to hospital. Later in the afternoon Vince relayed to
me that Tracy Mitchell “Head of Healthcare” said I must carry on with the meds that I'm on
because that's what the hospital. presribed me and that Naproxen is damaging my liver “when I

was only on naproxen for three weeks”. I haven't had any. LFT or RFT test since 25/5/18 Out of
desperation. I reached out to supervisor Shomal Kumar Expressing that I was really struggling
with my pain levels and stressed after the failed GP consultation, I also requested a villager had a
meeting with head of Health Care Tracy Mitchell. As well as another Zuko staff member to get
this all sorted out properly. I told Shamal that I was unwell over this whole deal. Shamal typed as
I was talking, then sent an e-mail to Tracy Mitchell. An e-mail came back from Tracys saying
that Middlemore Hospital has advised her that Naproxen was damaging my health and
recommended that we don't prescribe it again, and recommended that we don't prescribe it again,
Tacy Mitchell email and TL 14/12/18 page 21 as attached as exihibit ‘AK’
62. As this wasn't what I had been told at Middlemore? I decided to request my file notes from
Middlemore. The file note showed the reason i was taken off Naproxen by Middlemore was
because I had a fresh wound from Post hemorrhoid banding. Clinical Notes 28/9/18, attached is
exhibit. “AM”
63. Also on 14/12/18 I saw Tracy Mitchell at the triage while she was talking to another patient. I
asked politely if we could have a sit down and talk about everything that was going on, she said
maybe next week, but she never availed herself for a meeting. On 15/12/18 a file note was made
on IOMS (Integrated Offender Management system) saying. Mr. Ngamo was a bit agitated about
his medication. He was spoken to and advised that it was recommended by the hospital, and he
has been advised as to why he is on the medication he is currently on. Offender file note
15/12/18 Attached is exhibit. “AN”
64. On 17/12/18., I called the Corrections complaints desk and spoke with Conrad about my
medication. Tracy Mitchell responded to him by e-mail. CCD and Tracy Mitchell emails
attached as exhibit. “AO”
65. In her e-mail, Miss Mitchell says the “advice we have received from the hospital pain service
is that he should not take naproxen long-term” Middlemore's hospitals pain clinic comments set
out above did not give any such advice to ASCF. Neither was I been giving the alternative,
gabapentin, at the dosage MMH advised. It is correct that I told health care that naproxen was
not as effective as Voltaren, but the referral to the Middle More Pain clinic was to a service
which only provided non pharmacological support.
66. On 18/12/18 I handed in a one-page PCO1. Titled “Health issues” ASCF supervisor Hilton
refused to accept It saying it was too long. 22/12/18, I then submitted a shorter PCO1 to
healthcare making them aware that I'm struggling with pain levels and that I need a solution and
answers. PC 01/#38 reg and 18/12/18 Complaint attached as exhibit. “AP”
67. On 25/12/18 I had an appointment to see the registered nurse for a blood pressure test. When
I asked politely if she could put my name down to see the GP, she snapped back with a stern
tone. “You've already got one” Because of your attitude, I didn't bother asking for the date. On
31/12/18 at 11 AM I asked to get locked up because I was struggling with pain. Officer Emma
said she could see that I was in a lot of pain and see that she had filenote it, but she never did. It.

The 3:45 medication round I made HCA Gina aware that I wasn't a lot of pain and that
gabapentin was not working; she said she will let RN Bibbin know. On 1/1/19, at triage, I asked
HCA Gina if there was any feedback for me from yesterday's conversation in regard to my pain
levels. She said that she spoke to RN Babin who said that “the doctor is prescribing me the best
medication”, I asked her if she could tell me when my next GP consultation was booked. She
checked and said my booking maybe at the end of February, saying GP was away on
holiday..TL/26 attached as exhibit ‘AQ’
68. On 5/1/19. Triage. I pleaded with the nurse that the ongoing pain was more than I could
endure, but the nurse just said make an entry on the CMS. On the. 19 I reached out to our inn
Babin and made him aware that I was really struggling with pain and feeling run down and
depressed. He looked at my file and said that his hands were tied because the GP stopped your
Naproxen. PMH. 94 Attached as exhibit. ‘AR’.
69. On 9/1/19, I asked the South African nurse if she could tell me when my GP appointment
was, She checked on the PC and she couldn't find one. But said I'm down for the nurse next
week.
Complaint not answered within timeframes.
70. On 14/1/19., I rang CCD and spoke with Conrad to inform him that it has been 22 days since
I lodged. PC 01, 485487 on 22/12/18. I informed him that i still haven't been interviewed by the
Unit manager or healthcare manager. A unit manager is supposed to interview us for complaints
by the third day and complaints. Are closed off within 14 days. Emails between CCD and Tracy
Mitchell attached as exhibit AS.
71. In her reply to CCD, Ms Mitchell said that she told me that “she could not see me” is cited
above, She said to me, “maybe in a week” Miss Mitchell also misrepresented Middlewares
advice which was in relation to my major bleeding following a banding procedure three months
previously, which had not reoccurred. I was not provided with “Alternative medication.” is the
gabapentin was ineffective at the dose. ASCF gave me.
72. On 15119, I had a discussion with RN Bibbin about my GP appointments. He told me that
when I made what I thought was a GP appointment, I was only put on a waiting list with no
actual appointment date given. He informed me that RN Hannah second in charge, would then.
Select people according to the patient's priority and then give them actual consultation dates.
This had caused me much frustration and suffering as most times. When I queried my
appointment date. I was told by HCA's or RNs that they couldn't tell me my exact date or that
dates were too far off to show., but confirmed that I did have a booking. When I was only just on
RN Hannah's list. I was always in limbo, always anxious in not knowing how long I had to wait
in pain to see a GP. I spoke to Chris Shepherd at HDAS, and I later spoke to Paul at the Human
Rights Commission who suggested I go to Health and Disability Commissioner or to the
Minister. PMH / Teal.94. TL/27. Attached as exhibit “AU”

73. 1/16 1:19 I informed Corrections Monitor Junior that I was going around in circles getting
tied up in the complaint system and it felt like I have to take 10 steps sideways to move one
forward. That make junior aware that sometimes I was getting pushed beyond what I could
handle and showed him a PC01, one that I submitted last year.TL/27 attached as exhibit ‘AU’
74. 1/17/19, at about 2:00 Afa Paea, (unit Manager), Called me on the incel intercom in regard
to. (Reg 485487 ). It had been 25 days since I lodged this complaint and I was meant to have a
formal face to face interview within three days, according to the complaints process. Afa said he
had spoken to health care, and their response is that there is nothing they can do for me and that I
must remain on the medication that I was on. Afa just said. “Healthcare You've given their
answer” I asked if all my questions on the PCO 1 can be answered in a response returned in
writing. Afa said he would discuss further with health care. 1/17 1:19 I rang corrections
complaints desk. Conrad advised me that. PC01#38 was closed without resolution. TL and CCD
communication: attached as exhibit ‘AV’
75 On 21/1/19. I got a message via CMS which informed me that my GP appointment had been
cancelled. The message read. “Hi, Allan. For your info. Appointment with. The Doctor has been
cancelled due to your abusive behaviour towards the Doctor, in my PMH this is recorded as.
“Instructed by. Team leader. That MO appointment had been taken out due to his abusive
behavior towards the doctor. PMH. Page 94. Attached is exhibit ‘AX’.
76. I did not abuse Doctor Ampofo. I pleaded with him that I needed pain relief and then I vented
with the prison officers who were called in to end the consultation.
77. On 22/1/19, at 3:55 PM, I spoke with Sonia from the Health and Disability Commission and
requested a complaint form. Puzzle. Sonia said to contact and advocate, but it was already in
contact with Chris Shepherd. HDAS record attached as exhibit ‘AY’
78. One 23/1/19. I spoke to Conrad about my PC 01. # 38 Being closed without an interview
from ACF Healthcare. Conrad recommended proceeding to Prison Inspector, So I rang and left a
message with the inspectorate. So, on 23119 I handed in a letter addressed to the Assistant
Director of ASCF. Open brackets. (Amy Hunter) Two, Officer Doug, who said he will discuss
with Tracy Mitchell. Officer Doug came back later at around 5:00 PM and said they're tracing
Mitchell was just waiting for a report to come back about my current medication. Doug handed
my letter addressed to Amy Hunter back to me. Handwritten letter to Amy Hunter, Exhibit ‘AZ’.
79. On 24119 I received a response letter from ACF Healthcare in relation to PCO1/#38. Letter
attached as Exhibit ‘AAA’
80. In this response, Tracy Mitchell states.
In your complaint you state that you are in pain and require the medication naproxen. (My
comment: I also asked healthcare for a solution to getting on the correct medication to sort out
my chronic pain.

Your naproxen was stopped as it was contraindicted with rectal bleeding.-(My comment: This is
correct around the time of the bleeding 118 days ago. My wound stopped bleeding and has long
since healed.
Naproxen will not be prescribed while you are in prison and it should never be prescribed again
for you given some of the issues you have experienced-(My comment: Tracy Mitchell is not the
legal prescriber and should not be making these calls. It has been 118 days or three months, 3
weeks and six days since I was. In hospital for post rectal bleeding
81. at the end of the day my complaint was about finding a solution to getting on the correct
medication or treatment to stop me from suffering with Pain in this response does not offer me a
treatment plan to manage my pain from getting out of control.
82. On or about 28/1/19. I reached out to my Auntie Leslie. I asked her to try and get my pain
clinic files and to try to directly contact. ASCF management about my lack of pain relief. Auntie
Leslie sent an e-mail to ASCF prison director Mike Inglis, who then forwarded it to Head of
Healthcare. Tracy Mitchell responded to my auntie. Email trail: PMH/93 attached as exhibit
‘AAB’
83. In her e-mail to my Auntie Leslie, Ms Mitchell stated I had been on Naproxen “for many
years” when I had only been on it for 28 days. Miss Mitchell again misrepresented the reason for
stopping Naproxen, The medication naproxen was stopped at the time due to major bleeding, that
had not reoccurred in over three months. She also did not refer to gabapentin being
recommended as a trial., that it was not working, nor that ASCF was not providing the dosage
recommended by MMH There is no reference in This little. The minimal being informed that I
had been diagnosed by Doctor Michael Butler, as I had informed ASCF healthcare many times,
that Dr Butler concurred that Voltaren was the best medicine to control my condition.
84. I noticed that ASCF health care referred me back to the pain clinic for “other support” which
to me seems as of healthcare have missed the point because I need to go back to the pain clinic to
reinstate me back to onto Voltaren the right medication to manage my pain. Not “other support”
IE. Physiotherapy, physio, mindfulness and counselling, etcetera is clear to me. They are.
Experimenting with other avenues. Whilst dealing with the condition That is outside of the scope
of practice. Miss Mitchell's reference to the referral from the Middlemore Pain Clinic was
suggested for other support rather than pain relief, as echoed in the response from Middlemore
which states the ‘Reason for consultation.” was advice and education. “Barking up the wrong
tree”
On 6/3/19 I received a letter from the inspectorate regarding PCO1 #38. Letter attached as
Exhibit ‘AAC’
86. This letter says that I was initially prescribed Naproxen on my inspectorate flow., is attached
above, I informed the inspectorate I was initially prescribed Voltaren. It appears that the
inspectorate has simply accepted Tracey Mitchell's version of events, to my being prescribed
gabapentin, without. Discussed this with me or the Middlemore pain team. The inspectorate's

response ignored my complaint that I was experiencing long term pain and if there was a
problem, I should have been referred to specialists' advice.
87. On 14/3/19 i at 3.46pm, I spoke to Chris Sheppard from HDAS. I told her that my GP
appointment was cancelled. She said. Access to GP as my right. I rang human rights and talked
to Paul. Timeline entry in HDS record attached as exhibit. “AAD”
88. Because I was getting no pain relief, it was very hard for me to cope with shearing A cell.
Hustle. I had raised this issue several times and on 26/3/19, I spoke to Corrections Monitor
Raewyn Holland and informed her about my difficulties getting my ‘single cell alert’. Letter
delivered and answered after several failed attempts and the letters goin missing according to
Corrections staff. Raewyn offered to deliver it herself straight to the prison director. ( i needed
my own space to deal with my suffering and to manage my pain and mental health. Letter
attached as exhibit ‘AAE’
89. On 4/4/19 Tracey Mitchell responded to this request. Letter. Attached. Is. Exhibit. ‘AAF’
90. In this letter, Miss Mitchell referred to her “recent acute hospital admission” What was
admitted to Mineral in late September 2018? Over six months previously. I felt extremely hurt
and invalidated. I felt that RN Tracy Mitchell had Totally ignored the pain and distress that I've
described in my letter. She offered me so much support. To learn self-regulation techniques. And
strategies that I already practiced. I just need to be back on the medication Voltaren that they
took me off. I had a physical reaction to Traci's response letter. My heart felt broken. Tracy
Mitchell stated ‘i have very little to do with the day-to-day management of prisoner's medication.
This is not true. Tracy Mitchell repeatedly engaged in the mismanagement of my pain
medication.
I Provide evidence of my Chronic Pain Condition
91. On. 28/3/19. I went to the triage window to make nurses aware that gabapentin was not
working and told them that my Auntie Leslie was sending me copies of my Pain Clinic file notes.
The next day. On 29/3/19 I went to nurse station and showed the nurse my notes from the pain
clinic to try and make them understand that i have an actual chronic pain condition. My PMH
notes this and records. “Provided. Confidential letter for to HCM” (Health Care Manager, Tracy
Mitchell.) PMH/92 atttached as exhibit ‘AAG’
On 29/3/19 my liver function test were normal and my renal function test were high
92. On the 3rd or 4th of april, i spoke with RN Teresa It triage window and voiced my
frustrations about gabapentin not managing my pain. She was very understanding and helpful.
She prescribed ibuprofen to help settle the pain down.
Heart issues
93. On 6/4/19, I felt like I was having heart issues, I was taken to ASCF main healthcare for an
ECG test. PMH/90(c), attached as exhibit ‘AAH’

94. I was taken to the receiving office to prepare. To go to hospital, the handcuffs that were put
on me were a good fit, but then a senior officer (Oscer 1) came and ordered the junior officer to
put inserts inside the cuffs, which made the cuffs excessively tight. They were having difficulty.
closing the cuffs around my wrist, which was causing me discomfort. I told them the cuffs were
way too tight, but the senior officer insisted in a provocative and confronting manner muttering
under his breath to me saying “im on now, so youll just wear them like that”. I became very
distressed and upset at how tight the cuffs were and by the way I was being handled, I said the
cuffs were way too tight and that I'm not going to hospital with cuffs as tight as they were. So the
officer instructed the ambulance to go. I informed CCD about this and submitted A prisoner
complaint about the senior officer But the complaint went missing. I was later charged for
refusing to be handcuffed. You know, I was handcuffed. Is a minimum classification prisoner. I
should have not been handcuffed at all during transport. CCD print out attached as exhibit.”
AAI”
95. On 8/4/19, I had a GP consultation with Doctor Emmanuel Ampofo. I showed the GP the
clinic letters from Doctor Butler that my Auntie had sent me. The GP asked if ASCF has these
files. I said they should be aware of them now as i had referred to the letters in my request for a
single cell to Tracy Mitchell Head of Healthcare The Gp said we’ll pick this up on the next
appointment on 17/4/19 PMH/89 attached as exhibit ‘AAJ’
96. On 11/4/19, I went to triage to get some ibuprofen. Was declined. I discovered that it was
only chartered for one week. I asked RN Bibbin for more pain relief but he declined and told me
to wait for the GP which was another 6 days away. TL/34 atttached as exhibit ‘AAK’
97. On 15/4/19, I was informed by our in bibin the ASCF healthcare had a meeting at which all
healthcare workers were told not to give me ibuprofen “due to bleeding hemorrhoids.” despite
this not being the issue since I was admitted to Middlemore last September. I asked him again if
he could give me pain relief since he's an RN. But he said he could not. I asked him if even
health care even acknowledged that I have chronic pain condition. and that a lot of time my pain
levels are significant He replied. “Your pain is subjective.” PMH/88-89 attached as exhibit
‘AAL’
98. On 16/4/19, I noted in my pain diary. Working out of sleep due to significant pain. 7 out of
10 in upper torso area, felt like insides were tender and inflamed. Very uncomfortable and
difficult to move. (Pain at the slightest movement) breathing limited, couldn't take full breaths,
feels like lungs have been squeezed, right side shoulder, back, neck muscles feel very tight and
sensitive. My right foot is very tender now and I can't apply any pressure on my heel. TL/35
atttached as exhibit ‘AAM’
99. On17/4/19 I had a consultation. With Doctor Ampofo. I showed him my Green Lane. Pain
clinic notes in East skimmed through them. To stop the GP wanted to take blood being seen me
to a rheumatologist. He also wanted to troll Celebrex and asked me to fill out a pain diary which
started on 19/4/19. PMH/88 and Ampofo pain diary attached as exhibit ‘AAN’

100. On 24/4/19, i recieved 3 days voltaren for gout and 2 days later i noted in my pain diary that
99% of my pain had gone, it just feels good to be normal, being free of pain now makes me
realize how much pain that ive been in. It so amazing how voltaren can give me quality day to
day life. ETL/36 attached as exhibit ‘AAO’
101. On 10/5/19, I saw RN Adah For a pain review. I expressed the Celebrex was not working in
it. My pain was still persistent. PMH. 86-87. Attached is Exhibit ‘AAP’.
102. On 17/5/19, I had a consultation with GP Emanuel Ampofo He decided to take me off
gabapentin in Celebrex and trial me on ibuprofen, this was seven months after the same GP told
me that he can't override Middlemore's trial of gabapentin and being told multiple times it there's
nothing he can do. The GP checked me over for pain and discuss entries in my pain diary.
Coping Doctor Michael Butler, letters of 10/3/05 and 4/9/06, I asked if there was anything to
suggest that Voltaren had been damaging my Body. The GP said no. Nothing. The GP said he
will trial ibuprofen with Panadol. And if the rheumatology suggests diclofenac? Then he will
prescribe it. GP will reschedule for four weeks but this never happened. TL/36 attached as
exhibit; ‘AAQ’
103. On 23/5/19, I made a note in my pain diary. Significant pain in shoulders and neck, really
sore last night., It felt as if my muscles were about to rip from being too tight. On 27/5/19. I
asked the Indian Nurse Christine if she could ask GP if I could take an extra 400 mg of ibuprofen
on top of the 800 mg. That im already peressribed as i was struggling with my pain levels. She
said no, with an unpleasant manner. I asked her if I could see her later because I'm in a lot of
pain. The RN replied saying the reason you're not giving me more medication. Because it's
damaging your kidneys. when my last kidney function test on 1/5/19. Was normal as set out
below. Also on 27/5/19, When I was at the triage window Getting my medication. Common.
Doctor Mpofu asked how I was getting on with my pain levels. I informed him that I am barely
coping and that a couple of times my pain levels have been unbearable. I requested if I could try
1200 Meg of ibuprofen, but he said no as it would cause me damage. However, he suggested
giving me those dose 88 days later It's a GP consultation. On 23/10/19. The note in my patient
medical history states. “no distressed noted.” PMH/85, TL/37. Attached his exhibit. “AAR”
Renal and Liver function Tests
1/5/19 - LFT/ ALT:= 37 U/L (<45) Normal Exhibit PMH/149
1/5/19 - RFT/ Normal kidney function Normal EXhibit:PMH/148
104. On 29/5/19. Doctor Anne Pufu. Seemed to refer you to the pain clinic. The referral was
made for a virtual clinic where I don't get to participate. It was given a low priority of five with
an unknown waiting time. This was just after I finished stating the day before that I'm barely
coping and that my pain levels have been unbearable. PMH. 145 attached as Exhibit ‘AAS’
105. On 1/6/19, I had a consultation with RN Teresa. I told her that I had been in a lot of pain,
and that it was really affecting me and that I haven't slept much due to pain. I made the RN

aware that I was feeling run down and exhausted. I told her my right foot was getting bad and
that I was limping. I took my shoes off and showed her the swelling. I asked when my next GP
appointment was, and she said, ‘it's now best for the specialists to deal with’, but she will still
book me another appointment. She apologized that she couldn't help any more. I thank you for
making me feel human again, and I told her that she was very helpful. For the fact that she
showed some sort of emotion that validated I was suffering. TL38 attached as exhibit ‘AAT’.
106. I noted in my pain diary. Physically and emotionally exhausted. In a lot of pain.
Approached by other inmates. Asking if I was ok as they could see I was obviously struggling,
my warning bells are going off as I was close to losing the plot due to suffering. I reached out
and let Officer Mika know that I was struggling with my pain levels and that I was barely in
coping. He was helpful in directing me to go and see the supervisor.
107. Later on I went to triage to get medication, i made the HCA (Health Care Assisitant) aware
of my state of being and asked Who if she could talk to someone? Because I'm really struggling.
I asked for confirmation of any GP bookings and told her that the GP on 17/5/19. Was meant to.
Reschedule. RN Teresa Who was present said she will book me another one. The HCA. Checked
the PC and seeded any appointments were too far off to show up., but noticed that I had a blood
pressure test coming up and that I could talk with the nurse then. I became frustrated and said
“I've just finished waiting to see RN Teresa to book another GP appointment and now you're
suggesting a repeat the process again. This is frustrating and ridiculous. i then said, isn't it normal
practice that if a patient is expressing what i'm expressing that there is a sense of of urgency
Then it should be triaged as priority. I said. You’s don't get it. I'm in a lot of pain and I have been
telling yous for months. About an hour later, I spoke to Supervisor Alfredo. I opened up about
how I was really struggling not only with my pain, but my emotions and the feeling of
continually being mucked around by the health care. His supervisor said there were some things
that he can help with, but only medical can deal with the issue that I'm talking about. Exhibit
TL/39 attached as exhibit. ‘AAU’.
108. On 8/6/19. The pain inside my upper torso was intermittent throughout the night, brought on
when shifting positions or taking a full breath. I attempted to sneeze 3 times and the pain was
incredible. 10/10 on the pain scale. I was managing through very shallow, slow breathing. Deep
meditation and minimal movement. It works as long as I'm in this state, but as soon as I move or
breathe normally the pain returned. I asked an officer to be Unlocked to see a nurse. At triage the
RN (Theresa) Invited me in to talk about it. I explained that my pain is a recurring symptom that
flares up and is associated with sensitization disorder. The RN asked me what do I think is the
best treatment and I said Voltaren will settle it down. Th RN gave me Voltaren and said they
were hold ibuprofen this afternoon. I was pleasantly surprised with this outcome. I felt I was
treated with a degree of respect and listened to. The pain did settle down until the Voltaren wore
off. One 13/6/19. Pain woke me out of sleep at 2:00 AM with sharp stabbing. Lung pain. 9/10
My pain diary recorded Nick very tight, seizing up, feeling 8/10, Shoulder in back muscles, tints
heel Tinder. Can't put too much weight on it, feels like standing on raw nerves. Loud ringing in

my ears, continuous high pitch. Trying to meditate, deep breathing but can't because of stabbing
pain. Can't even stretch out. It feels like I'm heading back to that place again. Pre pain clinic
where i was bedridden from pain.TL/40 attached as exhibit ‘AAV’
109. On 15/6/19. Pain again woke me out of sleep at 2:45 AM with sharp stabbing 9/ 10 pain
levels in lung, and a relentless tension ‘burning pain’ in my shoulders. i was feeling very low
despondent and frustrated at the morning unlock officer dean asked me if i was OK and
commented this is a part of your on going problem. A new lady officer then asked if i was OK i
explained my situation and she said she would see the nurses on my behalf. I was feeling socially
disconnected and was in pain. I asked to get locked up again. The lady officer later came and
said that the nurses wanted to see me. It triage I went to the window and without even saying
anything I was handed to Voltaren. I was just blown away and grateful. I took one Voltaren at 11
AM. and by 11.30am my pain levels dropped to 1/10 at the most. OFNR Report 15/9/19 attached
as exhibit ‘AAX’
110. On 16/6/19, I noted in my pain diary: “so good to have a decent sleep” although i was still
emotionally tired, my pain levels were low in the morning, but they crept up as the day wore on.
I was given Voltaren in the afternoon and slept well that night. TL41 attached is Exhibit ‘AAY’.
111. one 17/6/19 i recorded that: “ I was meant to be rescheduled for a GP consultation today
from 17/5/19” RN Bibbin Called me into triage. I asked him why I was now allowed Voltaren
and he said it was only for prescribed for one week which I didn't know. As I had not seen the
doctor I was very confused by this as it just seemed random. At the afternoon medication round I
turned down ibuprofen as I still had one Voltaren held over from the day before.
112. On 18/6/19. I called Chris Shepherd. To discuss access to medical care and on 19/6/19, I
made a complaint that my pain was not being managed. Complaint form attached is Exhibit
‘AAZ’.
113. On 22/6/19-I recorded in my pain diary: that my pain and my heel was 9 /10. And 7/10 in
my shoulders. I went to triage and asked for Voltaren. In a foul tone, theRN said “no, because I
gave you Voltaren last week and besides, ibuprofen works”. I replied, but I'm in pain. The RN
snapped. “You need to tell the Doctor”. I said, “I had been waiting for the doctor for weeks
now”. Meaning for my rescheduled appointment that hasnt happend. ” And now no one can even
tell me when the next appointment is”. The RN just walked away and left triage without sayying
anything. I then left the triage and stopped to talk to the House block supervisor and informed
him that I was in a significant amount of pain. He said there was nothing he can do, but he will
talk to Tracy on Monday next week. I never heard back from Tracy. On 23/6/19 I was feeling
very rundown. 9 /10 my ears were screaming, and I could not handle any noise at all. I went and
asked HCA if my GP appointment had shown up. And she said I have one on the 7th of July, 14
days (about 2 weeks) away but it is for the rectal exam. My pain again is not prioritized.PMH/83:
TL/42 attached as exhibit ‘AAAA’

114 on 24/6/19, my pain levels were very high and i was emotionally exhausted i went to triage
and asked the HCA if i could please have some voltaren in place of ibuprofen I explained that
my pain levels are through the roof, which she replied “no because it's not scripted”, Head of
Healthcare Tracy Mitchell was also present, so I asked her. If she could have used her discretion
as an RN to chart me voltaren seeing that I was in pain but she refused. I turned back to the HCA
and said I'll just grab my weekly ibuprofen. (3 days worth). The HCA said. I don't have a
contract to hold three days worth of ibuprofen. I informed her that I do, that's why I got three
days' worth of ibuprofen on 20/6/19. The HCA looked up my file and saw what I was saying was
correct. Issue was opening up the packet to give it to me. I asked her to give it to me, So I can
take it later with my dinner. RNTracy Mitchell butted in in seed. “No. Take it now!” I informed
her that I shouldn't be taking it now because I've got an empty stomach. But by the way, Tracy
Mitchell was looking at me. I felt as if i went against her she would make things even worse for
me, so I took it with no water. My understanding is that the most responsible way to take
ibuprofen is with food or omeprazole to line the stomach. TL43 attached as Exhibit ‘AAAB’.
115. On 24619 I also contacted HDAS (Health and Disability Advocacy Service) and informed
them that again my pain was not being managed. HDS Record 24/6/19 attached as Exhibit
‘AAAC’.
116. On 25/ 6/19, I recorded: pain levels significant 9 /10, stressed. All night it felt like my head
was splitting open from the stress. The pressure is tremendous. It feels dangerously unhealthy. I
tried breathing and mindfulness exercises, but the pressure was too much. Even as I write this at
10.30pm, it feels like my skull was going to split open from pressure. TL43 attached as exhibit
‘AAAD’
117. On 27/6/19 HDAS sent a complaint letter to ASCF and on 3/7/19 Tracy Mitchell provided a
response letter Complaint letter and response attached as exhibit ‘AAAAE”
118. Ms Mitchell Refers to my diagnosis in 2006.but it says: “at this time, It is recorded that no
medication was prescribed” for me. This is not true. Doctor Butler's letters supplied to ASCF.
State that my CPS was being managed by Voltaren and gives the dosage. Ms Mitchell also stated
“Essentially medication tablets are not the only solution” Again, this is not true. From the outset
of this condition, I have used all normal pain control techniques and while they help, it is only
medication which works when the pain is intense and protracted. In her response, Ms Mitchell
ignores the fact that when I arrived at ASCF, I was being prescribed Voltaren. Miss Mitchell also
said that I had been offered mental health support but had not accepted this. This also is
incorrect. I have not refused any mental health support.
119. In her response letter. Tracy Mitchell also said that I had a GP consultation coming up. But
this? “Consultation” was for a “virtual clinic” which I was not scheduled to attend, and as set out
above, in AAS, This clinic was given a low priority by ASDF. Without even a date being set. In
the first instant. Miss Mitchell stated that the doctor would await pain service advice. But ASCF
had booked me back into Middlemore Pain Clinic which had previously informed ASCF
Healthcare that it only provided non pharmaceutical assistance as set out above.

120. On 5/7/19, i had a GP consultation with Dr Emmanuel Ampofo, We discussed this “virtual
clinic review” By Doctor Jane Sutten of the Manukau Pain Clinic. Which I then discovered had
been completed without her even talking to me. As Doctor Sutten didn't trouble herself to speak
to me. She had no idea that the mindfulness and self management techniques she was suggesting
I already practiced in the head done so for years. Doctor Sutten stated that “medications have
very little to offer in the management of chronic pain” and I do not think additional medications
are the answer here. But Doctor Sutton, had no idea of the actual condition that I had.As there is
no reference in Doctor Sutten's letter to Doctor Butler I assume she was never provided with his
letters. Which ASCF had as i had given copies to triage nurses and then to GP Ampofo 17/5/19
121. In ASCF healthcare referral to the manukau pain team. It appears that.ASCF precluded
consideration of Voltaren. As I was only referred for “advice and education” in a similar vein to
the “other support” Tracy Mitchell used in an e-mail to my Auntie Leslie. On 3/3/2019 as set out
above. CMH letter 21/6/19 attached as exhibit ‘AAAF’
122. At the same Consultation with Doctor Ampofo. I asked him if he could think about
prescribing me Voltaren even if it was only choice per week on PRN. That way I could have
taken it when I needed to stop my pain levels going through the roof and so I'm not left having to
endure very lengthy periods of being stuck in significant amounts of pain. Doctor Ampofo said
he will consider it. But first, he must discuss it with RN Tracy Mitchell. And reschedule a follow
up for next Friday on 12/7/19. ( i don't understand how the legal medical prescriber must discuss
with a RN to get permission to prescribe me voltaren, the doctor should be making the decision
himself”) TL4 attached as exhibit. AAAG.
123. As HDAS had never achieved anything for me, i gave up on the service. On 8/7/19 HADS
wrote a closing letter to inform ASCF they were no longer involved
Access to GP/legal prescriber/Treatment issue
124. On 12/7/19, i asked the HCA About my follow-up GP appointment from 5/7/19. I was told
there was no appointment. I woke up the next morning at 3:45 am feeling deeply depressed with
bad thoughts and emotionally exhausted by the way I was being treated. On 16/7/19, I explained
to the HCA that I was supposed to have a follow up on Friday just gone and if she confirm any
GP appointments. She said she will look into it but never got back to me. TL-45 attached as
Exhibit ‘AAAH’.
125 On 17/7/19 I started my psych sessions (suggested by ASCF Healthcare) for chronic pain
with Tash.i made her aware that I was struggling. PMH 81. 82 Attached is Exhibit 'AAAI’
126 Also on 17/7/19 I wrote in my timeline “woken around 2:25 AM by significant pain levels.
Very difficult to deal with pain and emotions. TL46. Attached is exhibit ‘AAA J’.
All Staff instructed not to give me voltaren
127 On 19/7/19 triage had run out of ibuprofen, so I asked RN Stefan if I could have Voltaren in
the interim. He declined and said have Panadol. He then said, we've had meetings about you and

all health care staff have been instructed not to give you Voltaren. TL. 46 attached as Exhibit
‘AAAK’.
128. On 217/19, my pain levels were unbearable. I asked RN if I could swap my ibuprofen tablet
for Voltaren. And explained that I had a really rough night as my pain levels were very
significant. The RN shot back with a very annoyed and unpleasant tone snapping. “No”. “You're
not allowed Voltaren because it's damaging your liver”. This was despite my liver function test
on 1/5/19. Being a reading of normal. RN then said. “We've been told not to give it to you
specifically by the GP” she then said in a derogatory manner that “Voltaren has been the cause of
your bleeding”. I reminded her that the cause of my bleeding was post banding rectal hemorrhoid
bending bleeding. I then submitted a prisoner complaint. PCO1/#59. But my frustrations boiled
over and when I leftthe triage, I threw a bread crate out of pure frustration and then got restrained
by corrections officers and given another misconduct/charge, I later made a complaint how this
incident was mis-represented.
Reg number 500571.
PC01 hand written:
PMH/81:
TL/47:
PC01 reg: 500571 attached as exhibit ‘AAAAL’
129. On the same day, I requested a meeting with Supervisor Hilton. Supervisor Hilton came to
speak to me and said he will talk to Tracy Mitchell and request a meeting to sort all of this out.
The meeting never happened. Later on, Supervisor Doris sat down with me and provided some
really good advice On 22/7/19 i asked RN Stefaan about my follow up appointment from the GP
consultation on fri 5th of july that was meant to be for the 12th of july as the GP said on the 5th
july that he will discuss with RN Tracy Mitchell my request for voltaren and let me know at the
follow up. The RN checked the computer and said there were no follow ups recorded I then
requested a new GP appointment in regard to the follow up and my requests for Voltaren. To
prevent my pain levels from getting out of control and also to discuss with GP a plan forward to
keep my pain levels under control. Butthe RN told me to come back this afternoon and he'll go
and discuss it with the health care team. Later on in the afternoon the RN said that he discussed it
with the health care team and informed me that there is an appointment for me on 24th of July
and that I am to go to there and take things from there. I already know that this appointment was
to see a iIntern psychologist for “other than medication” support. My request was to see the GP
as he is the legal prescriber for medication. I felt deflected again. It is clear to me that even
though I'm telling health care that I need Voltaren for pain relief, they are on a different mindset
and just focusing on offering me psychologists' practices such as mindfulness and meditation.as
an alternative to medication. This makes me feel like I'm an experiment. On 24/7/19 I made the
intern Psych Tash awae that i was developing right foot problems. PMH/80: TL47-48 attached as
exhibit ‘AAAM’

130. As discussed above, I submitted a PCO1 regarding the RN’s conduct towards me at triage
on 21/7/19. I had problems getting the receipt of acknowledgement. On 30/7/19 the corrections
monitor Raewyn Holland said she hasn't received my PCO one from the 24th 7/19. (Six days) So
she took another copy and passed it on to prison director Mike Inglis. On 3/8/19 I submitted 2
complaints.' Healthcare responded to these Complaints on 12/8/19 but did not apologize for the
nurse's conduct or for offering me false diagnosis. That Voltaren was the cause of my bleeding.
Letter from Tracy Mitchell, PCO1#60. Reg:499782: PC01/#61 reg 499778: attached as exhibit
‘AAAN’
131 On 12/8/19 I made inturn Psych Tash aware of my frustrations and low mood around
healthcare, not managing my pain correctly. PMH/77-78 attached as exhibit ‘AAAO’
Voltaren Prescribed for 10 Days
On 15/8/19, GP Emmanuel Ampofo Prescribed me Voltaren for 10 days to help calm the pain
down in my foot and to see if this would help bring my stress levels and heart rate down. This is
right after Tracy Mitchell's stating in her response. Of 12/8/2000 and 19. That the GP has spent a
number of clinic appointments explaining that he is not comfortable prescribing voltaren. Dr
Ampofo has told me a few times that he would consider reinstating Voltaren, but it seems Tracy
Mitchell always vetoed this. TL-51 attached as exhibit. ‘AAAP’
133. On 18/8/19. I submitted a PCO1 Reg. 500571, Challenging Healthcare's response in letter
12/8/19 to my complaint of 20/7/19. Sitting straight that my complaint was about the nurse's
provocative manner. And her demeanor towards me and about the rationales and false diagnosis
about why I can't have Voltaren. It was never about “not” getting Voltaren. PC01 Reg 500571
attached as exhibit 'AAAR’
134.On 19/8/19, I was at triage for a blood pressure test, I informed nurse that after i took
voltaren, my pain levels came right down and i was feeling good PMH/76 attached as exibit
‘AAAS’
135. On 20/8/19, i wrote in my pain diary that i feel absolutely overwhelmed from the task of
trying to reply to all of the discrepancies that are in ASCF Healthcare letter dated 12/8/19. This
overshadows my efforts to write my complaint to HDC. It's also having an effect on my ability to
focus on my education, as i havnt been able to study for 1 month, Ive been overwhelmed with
this whole process for many months. I keep getting Lost in the maze of trying to self-advocate
and get answers and find solutions. Sometimes I'm just worn out and numb. TL/52 attached as
exhibit. ‘AAAT’.
136. One 22819, discussion with GP Emmanuel Mpofu. Regarding my foot, that has gotten
worse from being left too long without. Creek Medication. I recorded it in my diary that the pain
in my heel was 9 out of 10. Extremely tender. Exhibit TL. 53. (Be) the GP will refer me to get a
steroid injection. First referral. TL53. Attached is exhibit. ‘AAU’.
Test safe

137. Alo, on 22/8/19. I submitted a PC01. Challenging ASCF healthcare's statement in their
response letter on 12/8/19 where they state” medications have very little to offer in the
management of chronic pain’. Healthcare in their final answer to my PC01 state that “our service
has access to a system called Test Safe. So we do have access to all clinic letters, scans, and
discharge summaries. These have been evaluated as part of your care. This complaint is now
closed. PC 01. Reg; 500877 attached as exhibit ‘AAAV’
138. Test safe was only introduced in 2010. So it did not pick up my pain clinic notes from 2005
or 2006. I had told ASCF. Healthcare about seeing Doctor Butler in 2005/6. At my very first
medical assessment, I have repeatedly requested my files. I informed ASCF that I had suffered
from chronic pain for 15 years prior and had been diagnosed by Doctor Butler (Pain Specialist)
in my first PC01 of 4/6/18. Testsafe information atttached as exhibit ‘AAAX’
140. On 28/8/19 i wrote in my diary that my pain levels were as follows:
9/10 in my Back and shoulders., excruciatingly tight, burning.
8/10 L/R Lung tender., can't take a full breath.
10/10 R/heel Can't apply any pressure on it at all.
141. The next day. I made a CMS request to see a RN. and a CMS message was returned to me,
informing me that I had an appointment two weeks away on 15/9/19.PMH/74 attached as exhibit
‘AAAZ’
No GP followups showing for me
142. On 15/9/19 asked about my GP follow up from 22/8/19 and the RN checked and informed
me that there are no GP followups showing for me. On 17/9/19, i recorded in my Timeline That.
The last couple of weeks. Has been extremely rough in regards to more pain levels in stress. I've
had to stop writing my complaint to HDC. As those two stressed. I'm falling behind on my
school Work. As well as being extremely low in mood. I wrote that I've been experiencing deep
depression and suicidal thoughts. The pain in my back and shoulders has been incredible. I feel
so stuck, especially after being told by Tracy Mitchell in her letter on12/8/19. Not to go ask
healthcare for pain relief. On 19/9/19, I recorded my pain levels at 8:13 PM. Is. 8/10 In right
heel. Tender 8./10 Around my shoulders and neck., Extremely tight, feels like a hot iron bar as in
me. I can't go on like this. Frustrated. Worn. Depressed. TL/54: PMH/73 attached as ‘AAAA’
143. On 26919, I had a session with intern Psychologist Tash, Who noted my struggles with
pain? Exhibit. PMH/72(c) - 73 (top of page). On 3/10/19, they made Tash aware. That although I
find value out of these sessions. I sometimes have fleeting thoughts of just wanting to end it all
because of the pain. On10/10/19, i again had a consultation with Tash and told her that I was
feeling suicidal. PMH/70-72 attached as exhibit ‘AAAAB’
144. On 20/10/19. I went to triage and asked. RN Christine. if there was any feedback about my
steroid injection? She checked and informed me that there is nothing on file regarding steroid
injection, which tells me that the referal had probanbly not been made.

145. On 23/10/19. I hate a GP consultation. I asked Doctor Emmanuel and Poo. Why I haven't
had a steroid injection? As discussed on 22/8/19. The doctor said he gave me 10 days' worth of
voter and stead. As we were talking. The GP confirmed that he just sent another referral right at
that moment. I also informed the GP that the rest of my paint issues have not been resolved. and
he dismissively said. We've already discussed these issues I then requested a referral. To
Auckland Regional Pain Service to go back to my original specialists. Doctor Butler. The GP
started discussing giving me a higher dose of ibuprofen. He informed me that he could justify
giving me more ibuprofen. And that he would only be happy giving me Voltaren only if a
specialist prescribed it. I informed him that I would try it but reminded him that I have been on.
1200 mgs of Ibuprofen before and it didn't stop my pain levels from getting out of control. I
reminded him that the only effective medication was Voltaren. On 20/14/19. at my psych
consultation with Intern Tash. I informed her that things were very overwhelming due to my pain
getting out of control. And that I was lacking proper sleep and feeling very depressed. I just
wanted to stay asleep. My pain this week was consistently 8 out of 10. On 31/10/19, I continued
psychological therapy to address my chronic pain issues. My mood is still low and I use this
session to vent about the injustice of care provided. By ASCF Healthcare. PMH/66-69:TL/56
attached as exhibit ‘AAAAC’
Anti-depressants
146 On 21/11/19. At my psych therapy I informed Tash there was struggling with pain in their
eyes, feeling run down and vulnerable. Tosh suggested that I should go on antidepressants.
Which to me was the classic. “adddress the symptoms rather than address the cause.” response.
PMH/64-65 TL/56 attached as exhibit ‘AAAAD’
147 On 5/12/19, it's like therapy. I informed Tash that my mood has been consistently low and
that I was having more suicidal thoughts. Because of having to endure long periods. Of
significant pain. Touched explain in detail about the antidepressants.PMH/62-63 attached as
exhibit ‘AAAAE’
I request a pain specialist
148. On, 18/12/19, i saw Dr. Emanuel Ampofo. I talked to him about my depression and how is
attributed to long periods of unresolved pain. I also requested again that I would like to see a
specialist in and inform him of the rigidity around my back and shoulders. I informed him that
ibuprofen was not managing my pain effectively.TL/57: PMH/61 attached as exhibit ‘AAAAF’
149. On 23/1/20, I had a consultation with GP doctor Emmanuel Improver. I made him aware
that I was also having ongoing. Pain. In my neck from being restrained around the neck by the
officer. On 29/1/20, I went to triage to report that my pain levels were significant and then my
back muscles were spasming in my neck felt like it was turning into some meat.(Rigid feeling all
fixed./set) I see this is a part of my chronic pain condition as I know the symptoms. The nurse
records a file note saying “it goes on and on” and that “he appears well” The nurses impression
that is recorded in my file is “neck strain” This is why I never felt they were treating my

condition seriously.On 31. 120 I went to physio and reported that my neck feels a bit better. But
still having ongoing muscle spasms. PMH/58 attachhed as exhibit ‘AAAAG’
Voltaren for Gout
150. On 11/2/20 I went to triage to report that I had got symptoms. The nurse gave me Voltaren
for three days and held ibuprofen. On 18/2/20, i went to triage to request voltaren for
continuation of gout. RN refused. On 20/2/20 I had a consultation with GP, Doctor Emanuel
Ampofo. I reported that my foot has developed further problems from having to limp and tiptoe
on it for many months because of not having the correct medication. I also reported that my
shoulder and neck pain is still unresolved. GP said he will follow up with the hospital and to see
me in 2 weeks on (5/3/20) for a follow up appointment. On 25/2/20, I notice on my CMS
timetable that there were no follow up GP appointments from 20/2/20, so i queried via CMS
about where my appointment is and on 26/2/20 a CNS message was returned sating that there are
no pending appointments showing. On 27/2/20 I rang hDAS and spoke with Michelle and
complained about GP not booking follow up, i also informed her of my right foot getting worse.
HDAS said there is nothing they can do. TL/58-59. HDAS record for 27.2.22. Also, PMH/56
attached as exhibit;’AAAAH’
Request for Voltaren and request to be sent back to pain clinic
151 On 2/3/20, I had a consultation with Doctor Emanuel Ampofo. I showed him my pain chart
for the week that i was on voltaren, it showed that all my pain went from shoulders in neck but
not foot. I informed GP that i want to see a pain specialist regarding my chronic pain. I reported
that the spasming and pain in my neck and back was wearing me down. I requested Voltaren
again and GP said he may be able to prescribe. Four times per week, but first he’ll have to talk to
head of healthcare “Tracy Mitchell”. Then get back to me. I reminded him that every time he's
discussed with Tracy Mitchell about Voltaren from me, the answer has been returned as no. On
4/3/20 whilst at triage. I was informed by nurses that Tracy Mitchell has said no to voltaren( this
is after she said previously that shhe has very little to do with the medication decisions. On
6/3/20 at a Physio consultation, I discussed ongoing pain in right foot and again requested to be
referred back to Doctor Michael Butler. TL/59. PMH/55. Attached is exhibit ‘AAAAI’
Corrections Complaints Response Desk
152. On 19/3/20 I rang Conrad at Complaints response desk regarding PC01: 510743. Conrad
emailed Tracey Mitchell informing her that my current medication is not working. That I was in
a lot of pain and that i needed voltaren. Tracy Mitchell replied to Conrad claiming that After I
had been seen by an extensive group of health professional. I was not allowed to have voltaren
due to complications i had historically. Tracy stated: that I should be invited to take regular
Panadol and the pain relief that I'm already prescribed “knowing full well that ive been making
multiple complaints about the medication not managing my pain’. CCD record attached is
exhibit. ‘AAAAJ’

153 These comments by Ms Mitchell were untrue. Only Doctor Thomas at the very beginning of
my ordeal had taken issue with Voltaren and Doctor AMpofo had resumed my prescription of
voltaren, as set out above. Subsequently I was provided voltaren for gout. I had informed Tracy
Mitchell that panadol had no effect on my intense pain. Tracy Mitchell was aware that middle
more pain centre had advise increasing my gabapentin dose up too. 1800mgs per day, but i was
only being prescribed 500mgs per day by ASCF.
154. On 26/3/20 at triage, I had a consultation with RN Bibbin. I made RN aware again that my
current medication treatment is not managing my pain. RN Bibbin said he will speak to Hannah
(2nd in charge) and will request Voltaren and told me to come back in the afternoon. In the
afternoon RN Bibbin gave me feedback, explaining that RN Hannah will have a meeting in
regard to pain management. On 27/3/20., I asked about the meeting previously mentioned. and
the HCA said he thought it was going to happen this afternoon as he was instructed to take my
medical follow up to healthcare. A discussion was had via AVL between the health care
manager. and GP.Ampofo. It was agreed that i could have voltaren 100mg with omeprazole 20
mgs to protect my stomach.no more than four times per week. One 31320. I started Voltaren 100
Meg. Because of the fact that I can only have 4 per week, I decided to speed my dosage out to
100mg every second day with dinner On 9/4/20 I made a general entry. There was. Struggling
with pain? My pain levels overnight were 8. To 9 out of team. I wrote that I had inflammatory
pain. Through upper torso, neck and shoulders And right foot. On 12/4/20. I recorded that my
dosage or Voltaren has 100 mg every second day. But it's only lasting 8 to 12 hours. Out of 24
hours. And that my pain levels were still reaching significant levels that were difficult to cope
with 8/10. I also noted that there is a 2 longer gap between dosages and it is hard for Voltaren to
be effective when pain is left for so many hours. On 19/4/20, I made an entry in my diary that
there has been an improvement in my quality of life from having 100 mg voltaren. I recorded
that i take100 mg Voltaren every second day with dinner at around 6:00 PM. But by 4:00 PM the
next day, my pain levels still become very difficult to deal with. By 6:00 PM. I can't put any
pressure on my right foot and my shoulders and neck are getting rigid and spasmic to levels of
8/10 PMH/53: TL/60 attached as exhibit ‘AAAAK’
Renal and Liver function tests
28/4/20. LFT ALT: 25 U/L (<45) Normal
28/4/20 RFT Normal kidney function
Sent to Pain clinic
155. On 23/6/20 I was taken to Manukau Super clinic. “rheumatology” seen by specialist Doctor
Kumar. I showed GP Kumar my clinic leaders. From Doctor Michael Butler. Then we discussed.
My pain and symptoms. I informed Doctor Kumar that I fully understand the risks associated
with long term Voltaren use. I assured him that the quality of day-to-day life that Voltaren allows
me to have by far outweighs the risks. Doctor Kumar was happy to reinstate me back to my
Voltaren and pain management plan. It has been two years 3 weeks, 4 days since GP initially

withdrew Voltaren on 29th of the 5th 2018. 756 days to finally get my treatment reinstated.
Rheumatology letter attached as exhibit. ‘AAAAL
156. Upon return, the RO Officer gave my Voltaren script to Arin Courtney. Whose side insured
condescendingly open? Who gave you Voltaren again” It was this kind of attitude towards me
that I've had to deal with., was a lot of miracle staff. It's also a reminder of the hell that I've been
through for the last two years. PMH/49. TL /61-2 attached as Exhibit ‘AAAAM’
157 In my PMH on 23620, RN Courtney Barlow noted that "Allan's desire for Voltaren during
my time at ASCF has required a care plan. To manage this. Which has included work with the
psychologist and the chronic pain team. Dr Ampofo and NP Intern H.Lu have clearly explained
the long-term risks. From Voltaren on Allan's cardiovascular health” Rn Courtney also refers to
my Voltaren use as “Drug dependency”. As she has previously suggested that my want for
Voltaren is attributed to addiction issues which RN Bibbin has also previously echoed. As set out
in PMH/49 as attached in Exhibit AAAAM. Also TL61-62 as attached in exhibit ‘AAAAM’
158. 129623I can report that my pain is now managed to where I can live a reasonable quality of
day-to-day life. This is the result I needed back in 2018. ASCF healthcare first become involved.
End